5851396
Unconditioned aggressive-display behavior elicited by the mirror image of a male Siamese Fighting Fish was brought under the control of a previously ineffective stimulus by classical conditioning. A stimulus light repeatedly paired with mirror presentation came to elicit the complex aggressive-behavior sequence. Relative rates of acquisition of four components of the display were compared. Fin erection and undulating movements were acquired most rapidly while gill-cover erection and frontal approach were acquired most slowly. A discriminative conditioning procedure revealed that the response was specifically elicited by the conditioned stimulus, and not a sensitization artifact
5851398
Children learned to respond differentially to four tones when correct responses were indicated by re-sounding the tone and flashing a signal lamp (simple knowledge of results). Correct responses were then made to advance a display counter. With this procedure, rate of response increased, but accuracy decreased. Mild punishment-points subtracted from the count-was then arranged for incorrect responses. Accuracy returned to or above its previous level. Response rate tended to remain above its initial level. These results indicate that when supplementary reinforcers are employed, precise contingencies must be arranged to ensure desired behavior
5851397
An attempt was made to strengthen behaviors of psychotics by applying operant reinforcement principles in a mental hospital ward. The behaviors studied were necessary and/or useful for the patient to function in the hospital environment. Reinforcement consisted of the opportunity to engage in activities that had a high level of occurrence when freely allowed. Tokens were used as conditioned reinforcers to bridge the delay between behavior and reinforcement. Emphasis was placed on objective definition and quantification of the responses and reinforcers and upon programming and recording procedures. Standardizing the objective criteria permitted ward attendants to administer the program. The procedures were found to be effective in maintaining the desired adaptive behaviors for as long as the procedures were in effect. In a series of six experiments, reinforced behaviors were considerably reduced when the reinforcement procedure was discontinued; the adaptive behaviors increased immediately when the reinforcement procedure was re-introduced
5852970
Eight different flavone C-glycosides from Mnium affine were tentatively identified by chromatography and spectroscopy. Quercetin-3-diglycoside and other unidentified flavonoids were found in M. arizonicum. The fiavonoid chemistry standing of its systematics
5852971
Cochlear potentials measured in several species of lizard show a close correlation between maximum electrical output and number of hair cells, whereas there is no uniform relation to sensitivity. These results are interpreted as indicating structural differentiation and frequency discrimination in spatial terms in the more advanced lizard ears
5852972
Genetic analysis of several hundred progeny from crosses of two heterothallic species of Achlya and Dictyuchus provides preliminary information about the life cycle and pattern of sexuality in the biflagellate Phycomycetes. Extensive testing of mycelial progeny indicates a diploid life cycle. Control of sexual expression and mating competence appears to be based on a complex genetic system
5852973
Guinea pigs injected with 100 micrograms of p-azobenzenearsonate derivatives of hexa-L-tyrosine, tri-L-tyrosine, or N-acetyl-L-tyrosine amide, in complete Freund's adjuvant, developed, after 10 to 19 days, delayed-type hypersensitivity to these substances. This was shown by skin reactions, followed by the formation of circulating antibodies that were detectable by passive cutaneous anaphylaxis. Experiments with p-azobenzenearsonate-hexa-L-tyrosine labeledwith iodine-131 showed that this substance was bound in vitro to proteins of normal guinea pig serum. Binding was similar with the nonantigenic hexa-L-tyrosine and its p-azobenzoate derivative
5852974
Paramagnetic cations quench the phosphorescence of DNA at concentrations well below one ion per DNA phosphate. The order of quenching efficiency is copper, nickel, cobalt, and manganese
5852975
Three mutants at three different phosphatase loci produce inactive enzymes at 35 degrees C but partially or fully active enzynmes at 25 degrees C. Furthermore, a suppressor mutant (su5palA1) which restores alkaline phosphatase activity in the palA1 mtutant is an allele of palcC4, a mzutant with a simultaneous reduction in alkaline and acid phosphatase activity. These data suggest that the phosphataseproteins may be made up of two or more different polypeptide chains, and that some of the polypeptide chains are common to two or more of these enzymes
5852976
Absolute hearing thresholds for two bats were determined by an operant conditioning technique. Pure tones rangingFrom 2.5 to 100 kilocycles per second were perceived by a single Eptesicus fuscus. Its maximum sensitivity was on the order of 68 decibles below 1 dyne per square centimeter and occurred at 20 kc/ sec. Maximum sensitivity for a single Myotis lucifugus was about 64 db below 1 dyne/ cm2 and occurred at 40 kc/ sec. The Myotis clearly heard a tone of120 kc/ sec but gave no evidence of hearing below 10 kc/ sec
5853074
The streptococcal cell wall mucopeptide when injected into mice either intraperitoneally or intravenously enhances the resitance to subsequent challenge with virulent Group A streptococci. Rabbits which are injected intravenously with solubilized mucopeptide develop a fever response which has a resemblance to that achieved with endotoxin. Mice which survive 6 to 7 weeks after challenge with virulent Group A streptococci yield at autopsy search Group A streptococci serologically identical to the challenge organisms. A preparative dose of cell walls injected into mice prior to challenge diminished this late recovery of streptococci. Group A-variant streptococci were recovered from mice which survived challenge and carried the organisms for several weeks. Filterable bacterial forms, which grew on L form media, were recovered from infected mice. The serologic type of the L forms was identical to that of the challenge organisms
5853075
Plasma LDH levels were determined in normal and Riley virus-infected mice following treatment with various drugs known to alter the activity of the RES. The rise in plasma LDH level after Riley virus infection was considerably enhanced by previous treatment with thorotrast (to produce blockade of the RES), and decreased by previous treatment with stilboestrol (to stimulate the RES). A dose of 2000 r whole-body x-irradiation, lethal within 3 to 4 days, did not alter the phagocytic activity of the RES, and was without effect on plasma LDH activity in normal mice, or on the rise in plasma LDH level following infection with Riley virus. Blockade of the RES with cholesterol oleate, thorotrast, or zymosan, resulted in a 2- to 3-fold rise in plasma LDH level within a few hours. The level returned to normal by 1 to 3 days. Stimulation of the RES with stilboestrol resulted in a decrease in plasma LDH level by 1 to 2 days in both normal and infected mice, with a return to normal by about a week. Blockade of the RES in uninfected mice with thorotrast or cholesterol oleate, besides increasing the plasma LDH level caused a rise in plasma phosphoglucose isomerase level, but no significant alterations in plasma aldolase or alanine transaminase levels, studied up to 10 days. Riley virus causes a similar pattern of enzyme elevation. It is suggested that the increased levels of certain plasma enzymes in Riley virus-infected mice may be due to competitive inhibition by virus particles of plasma enzyme clearance by the RES
5853076
The level of viraemia was determined in serial blood samples obtained from 2 mice after the injection of Riley virus. The plasma virus titre rose rapidly to a peak value of 10(9) to 10(10)ID(50) per ml by 24 hours after infection, and then fell slowly to a level of 10(5) to 10(6)ID(50) per ml by the 10th day after infection, where it remained relatively stable. Neither blockade of the RES with thorotrast, zymosan, or carbon, nor stimulation of the RES with stilboestrol or zymosan, before the injection of Riley virus, produced any observable alteration in the level of viraemia attained 24 hours after infection. However 10 days or more after infection with Riley virus blockade of the RES with thorotrast caused a transitory rise, and stimulation of the RES with stilboestrol caused a slight but prolonged fall, in the level of viraemia. Zymosan injection at this period of infection caused an initial rise, followed by a fall, in the level of viraemia; these changes correlated with the initial period of blockade and the subsequent period of stimulation of the RES observed in carbon clearance studies. The clearance of injected Riley virus particles from the plasma over a period of 3 hours after injection was measured in previously uninfected mice and mice which had been infected with Riley virus for 3 weeks. The mice which had been infected 3 weeks before the test cleared rather more of the injected virus than the previously uninfected mice. It is concluded that although the activity of the RES affects, and may determine, the level of viraemia, the permanence of the viraemia in Riley virus-infected mice does not appear to be due to a failure of the RES to clear virus particles from the plasma
5853932
In response to the floral stimulus, Xanthium buds synthesize relatively more messenger RNA than do vegetative buds. This is demonstrated by fractionation, on methylated albumin-kieselguhr columns, of a mixture of nucleic acids from vegetative and induced buds, one being labeled with uridine-H(3) and the other with uridine-2-C(14). While floral induction stimulates a small increase in messenger RNA synthesis as revealed by labeling intact plants, this difference can be magnified by labeling excised buds in solution. From experiments with excised buds from Xanthium plants, it is concluded that buds from photoperiodically induced plants contain more messenger RNA than buds from noninduced ones do
5853933
Electrophoretic differences in hemoglobins and transferrins serve to differentiate Anolis of the same species populating the Lesser Antilles. When based on protein analyses, identifications of individuals may be less equivocal than identification based on descriptions of skin color and markings. Protein differences among island populations appear to be associated with long periods of geographic isolation. Such evidence often confirms estimates of relationship derived from more traditional criteria and in some cases provides a basis for formulating new taxonomic conclusions
5853934
Animals injected with venom of the scorpion Centruroides sculpturatus Ewing or venom of the rattlesnake Crotalus atrox Baird and Girard were subjected to high-and low-temperature stress. Unconditioned animals transferred to a modified temperature were less refractory to the venoms than those conditioned for 48 hours, but all animals stressed were less refractory than unstressed animals. Animals receiving a series of small doses of epinephrine were similarly affected. This apparent change in toxicity of the venoms seems to be due to the physiological effects of stress rather than to the temperature per se
5853935
Ribosomal RNA extracted from peripheral lymphocytes, which had been recently stimulated by specific antigens to which the donor was sensitized, is capable of promoting transformation and mitosis when added to cultures of autologous unstimulated lymphocytes
5853937
Electromyographic studies of the monosynaptic reflex in 70 Parkinsonian patients and 12 normal subjects show four types of abnormal facilitation and recovery curves in the Parkinsonian group, types that correspond to variations in the clinical syndrome; Cryosurgical lesions in the, ventro-lateral and ventro-postero-lateral nuclei of the thalamus restore essentially normal curves
5853936
Short-day photoperiods in conjunction with a second stimulus were required to induce sexual reproduction (and diapause) in an autumnally diapausing strain of Daphnia pulex. The second stimulus was associated with the unalkalized portion of a small lake and with density of the population in laboratory cultures. Diapause was induced at 12 degrees and 19 degrees C
5853938
The DDT associated with samples of airborne particulates was measured by gas chromatography. Because of possible vaporization of DDT during sampling, concentrations reported represent minimum values but demonstrate that DDT can be present in an urban atmosphere that is distant from any large-scale agricultural activity
5853939
A method for determining the spectral sensitivity of the different color mechanisms of the human eye uses the pattern of color names applied to small, brief, dim, monochromatic flashes. Such responses are often due to the activation of single neural units. Preliminary spectral sensitivity curves for two color mechanisms have been obtained
5854428
The medium of drug transfer is the water of plasma and extracellular fluid. Without complicating factors, the level of drug at a receptor site would be equal to that in the tissues and in plasma, and in dynamic equilibrium. Actually, almost all drugs are reversibly bound to proteins in plasma or tissue. The bound drug, often a high proportion of the total, acts as a reservoir, preventing wild fluctuations between ineffective and toxic levels of the biologically active unbound fraction.Displacement from a receptor site diminishes drug activity, but displacement from plasma or tissue proteins augments the effect by making more unbound drug available at the receptor site.Atropine has no intrinsic activity, but displaces acetylcholine or pilocarpine from receptors at para-sympathetic nerve endings. Similarly guanethidine competes with noradrenaline at sympathetic nerve endings, but in turn is displaced by amphetamine-like drugs.Many acidic drugs (phenylbutazone, sulfonamides, coumarin anticoagulants, salicylates, &amp;c.) are highly bound to one or two sites on albumin molecules. When the limited carrying capacity of the plasma proteins is filled, any unbound surplus is usually soon metabolized or excreted, so the plasma level becomes restabilized. Meanwhile, however, there may be dramatic effects such as hypoglycemia, when sulfonamides are given to patients on tolbutamide, or bleeding when phenylbutazone is given to patients on warfarin.Although hormones, like thyroxine, insulin and cortisol, are carried by specific proteins, they too can be displaced. All the antirheumatic drugs so far examined have displaced cortisol and presumably driven it into tissues. This may be one mechanism of action. Possibly the sulfonylurea drugs act by displacing insulin from proteins in the pancreas, plasma or elsewhere
5854582
Gaudy, Elizabeth T. (University of Illinois, Urbana), R. Bojanowski, R. C. Valentine, and R. S. Wolfe. Ureidoglycolate synthetase of Streptococcus allantoicus. I. Measurement of glyoxylate and enzyme purification. J. Bacteriol. 90:1525-1530. 1965.-A new spectrophotometric method for the determination of glyoxylate is described. The technique is based on measurement of the initial rate of formation of glyoxylic acid phenylhydrazone in neutral solution. Its advantages include rapidity and convenience, suitability for use with mixtures containing acid-labile substrates, and elimination of possibly inhibitory reagents from the enzyme incubation mixture. Ureidoglycolate synthetase, which cleaves ureidoglycolate to glyoxylate and urea, was purified from crude extracts of Streptococcus allantoicus grown on allantoin-containing medium. The purification procedures include treatment with MnCl(2), fractionation on calcium phosphate gel, fractional precipitation with ammonium sulfate, and column chromatography on diethylaminoethyl cellulose. The final enzyme preparation was purified 77-fold and contained 35% of the total activity of the extract
5854583
Gaudy, Elizabeth T. (University of Illinois, Urbana), and R. S. Wolfe. Ureidoglycolate synthetase of Streptococcus allantoicus. II. Properties of the enzyme and reaction equilibrium. J. Bacteriol. 90:1531-1536. 1965.-The properties of ureidoglycolate synthetase from Streptococcus allantoicus grown on allantoin were studied, by use of the purified enzyme preparation and crystalline sodium ureidoglycolate. Ureidoglycolate synthetase activity was maximal over the pH range of 8.4 to 8.8. No cofactors were required for the reaction. Enzyme activity was inhibited by p-chloromercuribenzoate at relatively high concentrations, by Hg(++) or Zn(++) ions, and to a lesser extent by several other metal cations. The maximal velocity for the purified ureidoglycolate synthetase, determined graphically from a Lineweaver-Burk plot, was 220 mumoles of glyoxylate formed per min per mg of protein. The substrate concentration required for half-maximal velocity was 3.3 x 10(-2)m. The equilibrium constant for the synthesis of ureidoglycolate was determined in a series of reaction mixtures covering a wide range of initial concentrations of reactants. The position of the equilibrium was not affected by a change in pH or by the presence of enzyme. The equilibrium constant for the reaction in the direction of synthesis was 7.6, corresponding to a negative free energy change of 1,230 cal per mole
5854584
Kim, K. (University of Washington, Seattle), and N. B. Groman. Mode of inhibition of diphtheria toxin by ammonium chloride. J. Bacteriol. 90:1557-1562. 1965.-The inhibition of diphtheria toxin by ammonium salts was independent of toxin concentration over a 100-fold range of toxin. Inhibition by minimal concentrations of ammonium chloride was abolished by lowering the pH, indicating that free ammonia is the active form of inhibitor. A single addition of ammonium chloride inhibited toxin for a limited period of time, but periodic readdition of the ammonium salt was required to sustain inhibition indefinitely in the absence of antitoxin. Toxin was not destroyed and its adsorption occurred equally well in the presence or absence of ammonium chloride. Preadsorbed toxin was also effectively inhibited by the addition of ammonium chloride. Inhibited toxin remained accessible to antitoxin neutralization. Attempts to reverse ammonia inhibition by the addition of succinate or reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide were unsuccessful. Attempts to inhibit toxin by interfering with active transport were also unsuccessful
5854585
Groman, Neal B. (University of Washington, Seattle). Factors in lysis and lysis inhibition by lambda bacteriophage. J. Bacteriol. 90:1563-1568. 1965.-Induced Escherichia coli strain K-12(lambda112) exhibited lysis inhibition at 37 C but lysed at 44 C when incubated in LB medium lacking NaCl [LB - (NaCl)]. In LB medium containing NaCl, the temperatures for lysis and lysis inhibition were reversed. In contrast, induced K-12(lambda) lysed under all of these conditions. At 37 C, the addition of NaCl to LB - (NaCl) at various times after induction of K-12(lambda112) restored lysis. The degree of lysis decreased the longer the addition was delayed, but partial restoration occurred as late as 150 min postinduction. At 44 C, the addition of salt at various times after induction restored lysis inhibition even after lysis had begun. An attempt was made to correlate the conditions for lysis and lysis inhibition with the behavior of lambda112 endloysin. The enzymatic activities of lambda and mutant lambda112 endolysins were compared under various salt-temperature conditions. Both endolysins were progressively and equally inhibited by increasing concentrations of Na(+), K(+), and Li(+) salts, and exhibited similar relative activities at 24 and 37 C. Both were stable at 37 C in the presence and absence of NaCl, and were inactivated at comparable rates at 44 C. The results indicate that the effect of salt and temperature on lysis and lysis inhibition cannot be explained by their direct effect on lambda112 endolysin
5854586
Wilkins, Peter O. (New Jersey College of Medicine and Dentistry, Jersey City), and Vincent P. Cirillo. Sorbose counterflow as a measure of intracellular glucose in baker's yeast. J. Bacteriol. 90:1605-1610. 1965.-The intracellular concentration of glucose in metabolizing baker's yeast was determined indirectly from the glucose-induced counterflow of previously accumulated sorbose. The method is based on the concept that sugar transport in yeast is a symmetrical facilitated diffusion. The intracellular glucose concentration increased with an increase in the extracellular concentration and was higher in aerobiosis than in anaerobiosis. The concentrations were considerably greater than those obtained by direct analysis of intracellular glucose. Calculation of the apparent maximal velocity of glucose transport yielded values which varied with the rate of metabolism and the extracellular concentration. This suggests that during glucose metabolism the transport of hexoses includes elements that are not revealed by experiments involving metabolic inhibitors or nonmetabolizable sugars
5854587
Wallis, Craig (Baylor University College of Medicine, Houston, Tex.), and Joseph L. Melnick. Thermostabilization and thermosensitization of herpesvirus. J. Bacteriol. 90:1632-1637. 1965.-Herpesvirus, long considered as one of the most thermolabile of viruses, was stabilized by 1 m Na(2)SO(4) or Na(2)HPO(4) so that it withstood heating at 50 C, but the virus was not protected by 1 m MgCl(2), MgSO(4), or KH(2)PO(4), or 2 m KCl or NaCl; 1 m Na(2)SO(4) also stabilized herpesvirus at 25 and 37 C. In contrast, herpesvirus was made extremely thermosensitive in the presence of isotonic salt concentrations or of isotonic tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane buffer, especially at pH 7.2 or above. Partially purified virus was relatively thermostable when suspended in distilled water at pH 7.2, but in Earle's salt solution the virus immediately became thermosensitive. As found in tissue culture harvests, herpesvirus was thermolabile, but the virus was rendered stable at 50 C by simple dilution in distilled water. Protection by proteins or amino acids, generally accepted as virus-stabilizing agents, did not seem to be the result of a direct effect upon herpesvirus. The present data suggest that the added proteins counteract in part thermosensitizing effects of the salts contained in the virus harvest
5854588
Lockhart, W. R. (Iowa State University, Ames), and Karen Koenig. Use of secondary data in numerical taxonomy of the genus Erwinia. J. Bacteriol. 90:1638-1644. 1965.-Numerical methods were used to study 34 bacterial cultures, including several species of Erwinia and selected representatives of other genera of the Enterobacteriaceae. Separate computations were made by use of varying amounts of secondary data (i.e., information regarding descriptive or quantitative characters applicable only to organisms yielding a positive result in another primary character). Substantially the same groupings of the test organisms were obtained in all computations, but definition of groups seemed to be more precise when secondary data were included. The results confirm proposals by other workers that E. carotovora, E. aroideae, E. atroseptica, and E. ananas be placed in a single species, separate from E. amylovora. Limited evidence suggests that E. nimipressuralis and E. chrysanthemi may be distinct species, and that some strains of E. amylovora are not very similar either to one another or to other members of the Enterobacteriaceae
5854589
Moore, D. H. (The Rockefeller University, New York, N. Y.), R. N. Arison, H. Tanaka, W. T. Hall, and M. Chanowitz. Identity of the filterable hemolytic anemia agent of Sacks with Haemobartonella muris. J. Bacteriol. 90:1669-1674. 1965.-In 1960 a new hemolytic agent in rats was reported. It was thought to be a filterable, nonsedimentable, replicating infectious agent, different from Haemobartonella muris. Rats which recovered from the infection developed a resistance to several kinds of transplantable tumors. It is here shown that this agent has the same properties as those reported in the literature and reconfirmed by us for H. muris. The size of the agent is approximately 500 mmu as determined by correlating bioactivity with Gradocol membrane filtrates and fractions from a diffusion cell, and its density is about midway between that of whole serum and distilled water (approximately 1.020) as determined by the sedimentation of bioactivity in an ultracentrifuge. Diffusion at 30 C indicated a lack of motility by the agent bodies. Rats were found to be protected against infection with the agent by daily administration of chlortetracycline and by prior infection with H. muris. The agent bodies were indistinguishable from H. muris in both the light and the electron microscope
5854590
Duerre, John A. (University of North Dakota, Grand Forks), and Patrick J. Buckley. Pigment production from tryptophan by an Achromobacter species. J. Bacteriol. 90:1686-1691. 1965.-A microorganism was isolated from the soil near the University of North Dakota. Biochemical and morphological characteristics indicated that this organism would best be classified as a member of the family Achromobacteraceae, genus Achromobacter, species unknown. The organism produced a red pigment when grown in a medium containing yeast extract and tryptophan. The pH optimum for pigment production was about 8.0 and the optimal temperature was 25 C. During a study of the nutritional requirements for growth and pigment production, it was found that the organism would grow and produce pigment in a medium containing tryptophan and nucleosides, but the rate of both growth and pigment formation in this medium was slower than that observed with tryptophan and yeast extract. The organism grew well in the presence of acid-hydrolyzed casein and nucleosides without producing pigment, indicating that the pigment is not necessary for growth. Resting-cell experiments definitely established tryptophan as the sole exogenous requirement for pigment production. The pigment was extracted from yeast extract-tryptophan medium with chloroform. Thin layer chromatographic analysis of the crude pigment extracted from this medium revealed the presence of two other pigments in addition to the major red pigment. One of these was a highly fluorescent orange pigment and the other a pink pigment. Only the red pigment was produced by resting cells in the presence of tryptophan alone. This pigment served as an electron acceptor when coupled with formic dehydrogenase, indicating its possible function as an oxidation-reduction pigment. The oxidized pigment had absorption peaks at 506 and 304 mmu. The peak at 506 mmu disappeared upon reduction with sodium sulfite. Shaking the reduced pigment in air proved to be an unsatisfactory method for returning the reduced pigment to the oxidized, colored state
5854591
Terrinha, António M. (National Laboratory for Veterinary Research, Lisbon, Portugal), José D. Vigário, José L. Nunes Petisca, J. Moura Nunes, and Armando L. Bastos. Autoradiographic study on sheeppox virus infection. J. Bacteriol. 90:1703-1709. 1965.-An autoradiographic study of sheep embryo cell cultures infected with sheeppox virus showed that viral deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) synthesis starts at 10 to 11 hr after infection. The number of cells which supported viral DNA synthesis increased until 22 to 23 hr. The extent of cytoplasmic continuity between cells might permit the cell-to-cell transfer of mature virus or perhaps viral DNA. There is evidence of an inhibitory action on cellular DNA synthesis in cells which supported viral DNA synthesis, but, in all cellular populations infected, a small proportion of cells was encountered which supported viral DNA synthesis in compartment S. No evidence for cellular division of sheeppox virus-infected cells has been found. Enzymatic digestion by deoxyribonuclease combined with autoradiography provided an indirect demonstration of the time at which the first viral structural proteins were found to be synthesized, that is, 18 hr after infection. A progressive increase in synthesis of viral structural proteins was demonstrated. Virus maturation occurred within the cells in the cytoplasm, predominantly in the same sites as viral DNA synthesis
5854592
Anderson, J. I. W. (Northeast Shellfish Sanitation Research Center, Narragansett, R.I.), and W. P. Heffernan. Isolation and characterization of filterable marine bacteria. J. Bacteriol 90:1713-1718. 1965.-By a process of double filtration of seawater, first through a membrane filter with a pore diameter of 0.45 mu and then through a membrane filter with a pore diameter of 0.22 mu, it was possible to isolate on the surface of the latter membrane a group of marine organisms not usually encountered by conventional techniques of pour plates or one-stage filtration. Many of the isolates could not be identified, but the largest single group belonged to the genus Spirillum; other isolates were placed in the genera Leucothrix, Flavobacterium, Cytophaga, and Vibrio. A group of four organisms which was not identified was characterized by the formation of large, club-shaped cells, 20 to 30 mu long. Of the 25 strains studied in detail, 22 required seawater for growth and 8 retained their filterable property after cultivation. No filterable bacteria were isolated from terrestrial samples
5854593
Mergenhagen, Stephan E. (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md.). Polysaccharide-lipid complexes from Veillonella parvula. J. Bacteriol. 90:1730-1734. 1965.-A strain of Veillonella parvula (V2) elaborates an extracellular slime when grown in a nutrient medium containing only dialyzable components. Deproteinization with chloroform-butanol of ethyl alcohol-precipitated material from the supernatant culture fluid leads to the isolation of a water-soluble lipopolysaccharide (LPS1). Another component (LPS2), showing similarity in biological and immunological properties to the endotoxic antigen (LPC) isolated from whole cells, was extracted with phenol from the insoluble emulsion remaining after chloroform-butanol extraction of slime. Analysis of polysaccharides by thin-layer chromatography demonstrated the presence of glucose and galactose in LPS1 and glucose, glucosamine, galactosamine, and a methyl pentose in LPC. LPS1 failed to give a positive epinephrine skin test after intravenous injection in rabbits and failed to kill pertussis-sensitized mice, whereas LPS2 and LPC were active in both of these bioassays. Both lipopolysaccharides (LPS1 and LPC) exhibited type-specific haptenic activity in hemagglutination tests with numerous anti-Veillonella rabbit sera. LPS1 was found in these tests to be unrelated to a heterologous strain of Veillonella possessing a related somatic antigen. These experiments reveal the presence of two chemically and immunologically distinguishable polysaccharide-lipid complexes in this strain of V. parvula
5854594
Tanaka, H. (The Rockefeller University, New York, N.Y.), W. T. Hall, J. B. Sheffield, and D. H. Moore. Fine structure of Haemobartonella muris as compared with Eperythrozoon coccoides and Mycoplasma pulmonis. J. Bacteriol. 90:1735-1749. 1965.-Thin sections of filterable hemolytic anemia agent of rat, now identified as Haemobartonella muris, revealed (i) that the agent is spherical or ellipsoidal and 350 to 700 mmu in size, (ii) that it has a single limiting membrane enclosing granules and some filaments (neither cell wall nor nucleoid was found), and (iii) that it is found preferentially at the surface and sometimes within the cytoplasmic vacuoles of erythrocytes in the circulating blood and bone marrow, and multiplies there through binary fission. No specific structure suggestive of motility was found. From the morphological point of view, Eperythrozoon coccoides was found to be very similar to H. muris, whereas Mycoplasma pulmonis, also covered with a single limiting membrane, differs in its pleomorphism and multiplication. These and some other microorganisms taxonomically between bacteria and viruses were compared morphologically, and their possible classification is discussed
5855505
The late after-potential that follows trains of impulses in frog muscle fibers is virtually absent when most of the intracellular potassium is replaced by rubidium and the muscle is immersed in rubidium-containing Ringer's fluid. Its amplitude is also reduced in freshly dissected, potassium-containing muscle fibers that are immersed directly in Rb-Ringer's fluid. These findings are discussed in terms of the model for muscle membrane of Adrian and Freygang (1962 a, b) and in relation to the report of Adrian (1964) that Rb-containing muscle fibers do not exhibit the variations in potassium permeability as a function of membrane potential that are found in fibers with normal intracellular potassium concentration immersed in Ringer's fluid
5855506
A method has been developed for measuring K influx into the epithelial cells of frog skin from the inside solution. Diffusion delay in the connective tissue has been taken into account. Ninety-four per cent of skin K was found to exchange with K(42) in the inside solution with a single time constant. K influx showed saturation with increasing K concentration, was not altered by imposing a potential difference of +/-200 mv across the skin, and was inhibited by dinitrophenol, fluoroacetate, and ouabain. Relatively low concentrations of dinitrophenol (5 x 10(-5)M) and fluoroacetate (10(-10)M) had no effect on k influx but caused a 40 per cent decrease in net Na flux. There was no correlation between the rate of K uptake at the "inner barrier" and the rate of net Na transport. Reduction of net Na transport by lowering Na concentration in the outside solution caused little change in K uptake. These observations indicate that there is not a significant Na-K exchange involved in active transport of Na across the skin. K influx was found, however, to require Na in the inside bathing solution
5855507
Potential differences between normal nodes of Ranvier (single fiber from the sciatic nerve of the frog, air-gap method) and a node exposed to 1 to 2.5 x 10(-6) gm veratridine per ml were measured. Negative after-potentials occurred immediately after application of the alkaloid when spike configuration and resting potential were virtually unchanged. The after-potentials decreased in magnitude and their time constant increased as the resting membrane was depolarized either by outward currents or by a train of impulses. Increase of (Na)(o) markedly increased the amplitude of the after-potential. After prolonged application of veratridine or with higher concentrations, a large slow depolarization (rate of potential change about 7 mv per second) could be triggered by a train of impulses or even a single spike. This depolarization could promptly be terminated by withdrawing Na. It is concluded that, once the nodal membrane has become permeable to Na (as during a spike), veratridine prevents the normal return of P(Na) to its resting value
5855508
Precise evaluation of permeability of biological tissues is often prevented by imprecise knowledge of operative forces. This problem has been approached by analysis of fluxes of isotopic species applied to opposite surfaces of a membrane. A simple and rather general flux ratio equation has been derived which may permit evaluation of membrane permeability, even without knowledge of forces, or of the nature of active transport processes. Permeability as thus defined should be insensitive to coupled flows, either of other species or of metabolism. In appropriate circumstances application of the equation may permit evaluation of the contributions of the various processes to the transport of the examined species. Composite series membranes would be expected to obey the unmodified general equation. Heterogeneous parallel pathways would alter the relation in a predictable manner. The effect of isotope interaction is specifically incorporated. The formulation is applied to consideration of energetics of active transport
5855509
The relationship between retinula and eccentric cells in the lateral eye of Limulus polyphemus was studied using a double electrode technique which permitted simultaneous recording of light-initiated responses in two sense cells and the labeling of the cells for subsequent histological examination and identification. The following results were obtained: (a) light-initiated slow responses with and without superimposed spike potentials were recorded from retinula cells and from eccentric cells (only one eccentric cell yielded responses without superimposed spike potentials); (b) spike potentials recorded in different cells within the same ommatidium were always synchronous; (c) a complete absence of spike potentials was observed in two experiments in which no eccentric cells could be found in the ommatidia containing the labeled retinula cells; (d) the greatest differences in the characteristics of responses recorded simultaneously occurred in those recorded from retinula-eccentric combinations. The results indicate that there is only one source of spike potential activity within an ommatidium (presumably the eccentric cell) and that the light-initiated response of retinula cells may be independent of the eccentric cell response. The suggestion is advanced that the response of the retinula cell may "trigger" the eccentric cell response
5855512
Voltage clamp measurements on squid giant axons show that externally applied puffer fish poison, tetrodotoxin, eliminates only the initial inward current component of spike electrogenesis and does not affect the subsequent outward current. The selective effect on Na activation, which is reversible, confirms the view that the movements of Na and K during spike electrogenesis occur at structurally different sites on the membrane. Spike electrogenesis is also blocked when tetrodotoxin is injected into the axon, but the interior of the membrane appears to be somewhat less sensitive to the poison. Differences in reactivity of various electrogenic membrane components to tetrodotoxin are discussed as signifying differences in chemical structures
5856997
5,5-Dimethyl-2,4-oxazolidinedinedione, a substance commonly used to estimate intracellular pH, moves against both a concentration gradient and a hydrogen-ion gradient in the everted gut sac. Furthermore, the value of the flux ratio for this substance under conditions of zero electrochemical potential across the bowel wall unequivocally demonstrates active transport
5856998
Activity of bacteriophage T4 neutralizing antiserums obtained 8 days after a primary immunization of rabbits with purified phage T4 is due to antibodies of the 19S (IgM) type. This neutralizing activity could be partially inhibited by treatment with excess antiserum directed against the a-locus group allotypic specificity carried by the whole rabbit serum
5856999
Transections of the brain of rabbit reveal that electroencephalographic arousal produced by injections of adrenaline takes place at the midbrain level, while mescaline and 3,4-dimethoxyphenylethylamine induce such arousal lower in the brainstem, at the medullary level
5857000
The mosquito Anopheles balabacensis balabacensis has been identified as a natural vector of at least two species of simian malaria in the monsoon forests of the northern Malay States. This mosquito is also a serious vector of human malaria from Viet Nam to northern Malaya. This is the first report of a mosquito which transmits both human and simian malaria in nature
5857001
Antelope ground squirrels (Citellus leucurus) were able, after conditioning, to respond correctly to a port illuminated with light at a wavelength of 460 nanometers. This color randomly presented at one of two positions, was correctly selected in reference to a second port illuminated with light at 500, 520, 569, and 600 nanometers, or with white light of varying intensity. Luminosity was not a factor in the discrimination
5857250
Two strains of bacteria that produce slender appendages (pseudostalks) from their lateral surfaces were studied using the electron microscope. The pseudostalks were shown to be extensions of the cytoplasm and peripheral membranes of the cell proper. Both strains of bacteria produce holdfasts at the poles of the cells by the means of which attachment can take place. The pseudostalks are not involved in the attachment of cells. No specialized intracytoplasmic structures are present at the point of juncture of pseudostalk and cell. A discussion of the possible functions of the pseudostalks, based on the electron microscope findings, is presented
5857251
(1) Chloroplast lamellae, like many other membranes, are composed of 90-A subunits. (2) The way in which the 90-A units associate with one another determines the quantasome structures of the membrane. There appear to be four 90-A subunits per quantasome in the most highly organized arrays. In at least some cases, the way in which the subunits bind one to another is under environmental control. (3) Extraction experiments are consistent with a model in which the membrane lipid surrounds the protein framework of the membrane
5857252
An electron microscopic study of the fine blood vessels in the skin and muscle of 25 newborn rats (sucklings, and therefore subject to physiologic lipemia) has shown that blood-borne lipid particles may leave the lumen of these vessels by two pathways, intercellular and intracellular. (a) An intercellular pathway: Some capillaries, venous capillaries and venules contain intramural, extracellular deposits of lipid which is presumably hematogenous. In some animals these deposits are quite numerous; available evidence suggests that they are a consequence of intercellular gaps, too small or too transient to be observed except in rare instances. Plasma apparently escapes through these gaps and filters across the basement membrane, while lipid particles are retained, usually in sufficient number to fill the small defect; some lipid particles are then taken up by endothelial cells and pericytes, while a few escape and are incorporated into free phagocytes. These focal defects, though few in number, may explain the apparent incapacity of blood vessels of newborn rats to leak any further after a local injection of histamine. Discontinuities in the endothelium were found also in the renal glomerulus, sometimes accompanied by extensive interstitial accumulations of lipid particles. Similar intercellular gaps are known to exist in other types of immature endothelia. (b) An intracellular pathway: This is best demonstrated in the capillaries, venous capillaries and venules which supply the developing subcutaneous adipose tissue. Here the lipid particles adhere in large numbers to the endothelial surface; the morphologic evidence suggests that they are also taken up into the endothelium through phagocytosis by "flaps," or into pockets or crevices. The lipid is apparently metabolized in the vascular wall; some is found in the multivesicular bodies. There was no evidence of active transport by vesicles or vacuoles. Neither pathway was demonstrable in the adult
5857253
The cell population kinetics of excised, cultured pea roots was studied with the use of tritiated thymidine and colchicine to determine (1) the influence of excision, (2) the influence of sucrose concentration, (3) the average mitotic cycle duration, and (4) the duration of mitosis and the G(1), S, and G(2) periods of interphase.(1) The results indicate that the process of excision causes a drop in the frequency of mitotic figures when performed either at the beginning of the culture period or after 100 hours in culture. This initial decrease in frequency of cell division is independent of sucrose concentration, but the subsequent rise in frequency of division, after 12 hours in culture, is dependent upon sucrose concentration. Two per cent sucrose maintains the shortest mitotic cycle duration. The use of colchicine indicated an average cycle duration of 20 hours, whereas the use of tritiated thymidine produced an average cycle duration of 17 hours
5857254
Freshly prepared hemoglobin solutions were successively irradiated up to five times with 1 MW (monochromatic wavelength) of green (530 mmicro) laser power. Oxygenated hemoglobin showed no detectable change, but the spectral absorption of reduced hemoglobin showed a shift toward the characteristic curve for the oxygenated form. Intact human erythrocytes exposed to a power density of 110 MW/cm(2) of green laser radiation showed no appreciable change in diameter or mass, but they became transparent to a wavelength range from 400 to 600 mmicro. A similar power density from a ruby laser failed to produce this bleaching effect. This response in the erythrocyte demonstrates a principle which suggests the laser as a tool for cell research: specific molecular components within a cell may be selectively altered by laser irradiation when an appropriate wavelength and a suitable power density are applied
5857255
The fine structure of the longitudinal layer of the tunica muscularis of the mouse jejunum was studied in various stages of mechanically stimulated contraction. The relaxed cell is long and narrow with smooth cytoplasmic and nuclear contours. As contraction progresses, the cell becomes ellipsoid and its borders exhibit invaginations at the points of myofilamentous attachment to the plasma membrane and vesicle-containing projections of the intervening membrane. These changes are interpreted as representing the deforming forces applied by the myofilaments to the plasma membrane. The nucleus of the contracted cell is shortened and widened, with convolution of its limiting membranes. This alteration, as well as progressive changes in the alignment of cytoplasmic organelles, is thought to be due to forces exerted on the internal structure of the cell by the contractile elements. The myofilaments form a network of oriented bundles during contraction. Aggregates of filaments of two different diameters are noted. The two sizes of filaments intermingle only in small areas of increased density. These dense areas increase in length and number during contraction. A model of the functional organization of the cell is proposed
5857256
Electron microscopic evidence is presented that the early response to denervation ("simple atrophy") of the semitendinosus m. of the frog is characterized by a greater prominence of the sarcoplasmic reticulum and by the presence, in the interfibrillar spaces, of mitochondria which are more numerous and smaller than in normal muscle. In contrast with the dynamic changes of the sarcoplasmic structural components, the myofibrils showed a progressive decrease in diameter after denervation and throughout the period studied. By carrying out tissue fractionation experiments, the yield of microsome-protein was found significantly greater in the denervated muscles, as compared with the contralateral controls, in this initial stage. Under the conditions attending the overdevelopment of the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), denervated semitendinosus m. incorporated valine-C(14) into proteins more actively than the control pairs. The denervated muscles also showed an increase in the number of freely scattered and membrane-bound ribosomes and of polyribosomes, suggesting a more active synthesis of the SR membranes. Pronounced atrophy of the myofibrils, disorganization of the SR, and an increased number of ribonucleoprotein particles lying in the enlarged interfibrillar spaces were the main ultrastructural features of "degenerative atrophy" in frog muscle in the late periods after denervation. The probably adaptive character of the early changes occurring on denervation of frog muscle is discussed
5857257
A new type of extracellular fibril is described in the dermis of Bufo marinus, Rana pipiens, and Amblystoma punctatum. It is restricted in distribution to the dermal micropapillae and the region immediately below them in the stratum spongiosum. The fibrils (diameter = 200 to 750 A) are lateral aggregates of fine filaments and have a unique banding pattern characterized by absence of recognizable periodicity and by polarization in respect to the basement membrane. Their distal(1) ends are anchored in the basement membrane, and their proximal ends converge in knots located in the middle region of the micropapillae. These anchoring fibrils seem to secure the minute outfoldings of the basement membrane along the dermal-epidermal junction. Comparable, but less frequent, fibrils are also encountered along the proximal aspect of the basement membrane in the skin, lingual mucosa, and mucosa of the gastric fundus in the rat
5857261
This study was undertaken to determine whether glycerol-extracted rabbit psoas muscle fibers can develop tension and shorten after being stretched to such a length that the primary and secondary filaments no longer overlap. A method was devised to measure the initial sarcomere length and the ATP-induced isotonic shortening in prestretched isolated fibers subjected to a small preload (0.02 to 0.15 P(0)). At all degrees of stretch, the fiber was able to shorten (60 to 75 per cent): to a sarcomere length of 0.7 micro when the initial length was 3.7 micro or less, and to an increasing length of 0.9 to 1.8 micro with increasing initial sarcomere length (3.8 to 4.4 micro). At sarcomere lengths of 3.8 to 4.5 micro, overlap of filaments was lost, as verified by electron microscopy. The variation in sarcomere length within individual fibers has been assessed by both light and electron microscopic measurements. In fibers up to 10 mm in length the stretch was evenly distributed along the fiber, and with sarcomere spacings greater than 4 micro there was only a slight chance of finding sarcomeres with filament overlap. These observations are in apparent contradiction to the assumption that an overlap of A and I filaments is necessary for tension generation and shortening
5857262
Glycerol-extracted rabbit psoas muscle fibers were examined by electron microscopy both before and after ATP-induced isotonic shortening. Ultrastructural changes were correlated with the initial sarcomere length and the degree of shortening. The ultrastructural appearance of the resting fiber at rest length was identical with that described by H. E. Huxley and Hanson. At sarcomere lengths greater than 3.7 to 3.8 micro, the A and I filaments were detached and separated by a gap. The presence of "gap" filaments was confirmed, and evidence is presented which indicates that these filaments form connections between the ends of the A and I filaments. Shortening from initial sarcomere lengths at which the filaments overlapped took place through sliding of the filaments. If shortening was initiated from sarcomere lengths at which there was a gap, a narrowing of the I band was brought about by a curling of the I filaments at the boundary between the A and I bands. No evidence could be found that the I filaments moved into the A band
5858024
The equations of electrostatics are applied to the adsorption of gases on molecular sieves; separations on sieves are caused not by the size of molecules but by electrostatic forces between the gases and the strong electric fields of the sieves. Electrostatic interactions can also explain the phenomenon of general anesthesia
5858025
Lowering of pH from 7.40 to 6.60 significantly decreased the rate of glycerol formation in fat cells incubated with either 1-norepinephrine or theophylline. When these cells were incubated with both 1-norepinephrine and theophylline, the glycerol formation proceeded at maximal rate and was quite similar at pH 7.40 and 6.60. These results indicate that the inhibitory effect of acidosis on the lipolytic action of 1-norepinephrine is exerted on the process which activates lipase
5858026
Hydroxyurea has a differential lethal effect on cultured Chinesehamster cells that are at different stages in their cell cycle. Cells synthesizing DNA at the time of exposure to the drug are lethally damaged. Cells in the phase of growth preceding DNA synthesis (G(1)) survive but are prevented from beginning DNA synthesis. Cells in the phase after DNA synthesis (G(2)) survive and appear to progress until just before the beginning of the next period of DNA synthesis. This differential lethal and inhibitory effect of hydroxyurea may be useful for synchronizing asynchronous cell populations and explaining effects of the drug in human therapy
5858027
During an examination of Ammi visnaga Lam. suspension cultures for the biosynthesis of furanochromones and related medicinal compounds, visnagin was isolated in crystalline form and identified. Thus, certain medicinally important secondary plant metabolites may be produced in appreciable amounts by plant tissue cultures
5858028
Human platelets and bovine lens fibers contain lactate dehydrogenase-3 (LDH-3) as the predominant isozyme but only very faint traces of LDH-5. Since the platelets and lens fibers, like mature human erythrocytes, lack a nucleus, the results strengthen the case for a previously developed association between LDH-5 and the cell nucleus. These three cell types are mainly anaerobic, and therefore their isozyme patterns are incompatible with the theory that anaerobic tissues exhibit predominantly LDH-5 and aerobic tissues mainly LDH-1
5858029
Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase specific to the erythrocytes of each of two wild hares found in Europe was discerned by starch-gel electrophoresis at pH 7.0 and pH 8.6. The single, sharp band of the dehydrogenase of Lepus europaeus was faster than that of L. timidus, at both pH levels. The sex-linkage of this enzyme was tested through reciprocal hybrids between the two species. Each male hybrid had a single band of enzyme identical with that of its mother, while both parental types of this enzyme coexisted in female hybrids. Thus, sex-linkage of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase has been suggested not only in man and in the family Equidae, but now in the family Leporidae of placental mammals as well
5858030
Analysis of the edible portion of vegetables and samples of green leaf tobacco failed to show polonium-210. The cured samples of leaf tobacco and the soils that were analyzed all contained small quantities of the element. Muck soils contained three times as much Po(210) as did mineral soils. Solutions used commonly to extract "available" forms of many mineral elements failed to extract a detectable amount of Po(2l0). Indications are that Po(210) or its radioactive precursors are not taken up from the soil directly by plant roots but rather by sorption in dead, moist plant materials at the atmosphere-plant interface
5858031
Weakly electric fish of the African family Mormyridae emit pulses at variable intervals with a distribution skewed toward longer intervals. Fourteen specimens of the genera Mormyrops, Gnathonemus, and Marcusenius were classically conditioned to increase briefly their discharge frequency. The unconditioned stimulus was electric shock and the conditioned stimulus was light. These results are novel in that the overt conditioned response involves neither secretion nor movement
5858032
A captive vea lion (Zalophus californianus) which had never before produced clicking sounds in the laboratory was first conditioned to vocalize in air and subsequently learned to emit underwater clicks. clicking was brought under control by differential reinforcement procedures. Vocalization as an indicator response may be useful in the comparative study of discriminative behavior
5858033
Eight young male subjects were permitted to sleep only 3 hours out of each 24 for 8 days. Electroencephalographic recordings were made during the 3-hour period of sleep. There was an increase in the amount of deep sleep (stage 4) during this period. On a recovery night, the first 6 hours revealed a significant increase in deep sleep, and beyond this period there was a sharp increase in stage 1-rapid eye movement sleep
5859016
Aldehyde-fixed rat tissues were variously dehydrated and impregnated in water-miscible 2-hydroxypropyl methacrylate (HPMA) containing 3 to 20 per cent water and 0.1 per cent alpha,alpha-azobisisobutyronitrile as catalyst for subsequent polymerization with ultraviolet light. Heat polymerization was also effective. Blocks of embedded tissue readily gave ultrathin sections, which required staining by uranyl acetate and/or lead stains to give adequate contrast for electron microscopy. The ultrastructure of pancreas, kidney, muscle, and intestine was well preserved by aldehyde fixation alone. Use of postfixation in osmium tetroxide or direct osmium tetroxide fixation was unsatisfactory. The fine structure of aldehyde-fixed liver from fasted rats was well preserved, whereas that from normal rats showed considerable disorganization and collapse, apparently because of extraction of glycogen during the embedding procedure. Enzymatic extraction of proteins by pepsin and of ribonucleic acid by ribonuclease after either formaldehyde or glutaraldehyde fixation was rapidly effected by direct treatment of ultrathin sections with solutions of the enzymes. In contrast, no digestion of chromatin by deoxyribonuclease could be detected. In spite of this present limitation, HPMA appears to have several advantages over earlier water-miscible embedding media for electron microscopy and to be particularly suitable for ultrastructural cytochemistry
5859017
Actively growing and dormant roots of Tradescantia paludosa were exposed to x-rays to compare the radiosensitivity of an actively proliferating tissue with that of one which is not active but is potentially proliferative. The level of effect was ascertained by the degree of change in the rate of root growth 4 days after exposure. Cell population kinetics were measured in control and in irradiated roots to determine whether or not a change was produced either in the number of proliferating cells or in the mitotic cycle duration which was sufficient to explain the altered rate of root growth. Nuclear volumes were also measured to provide an estimate of the relative total target size in actively growing vs. dormant roots. Tritiated thymidine was used to measure the cycle duration and the proportion of cells synthesizing DNA. The results showed that 184 and 305 r respectively were required to reduce the linear root growth rate to 37 per cent of that of the control for actively growing and dormant roots. Mitotic cycle duration, measured 4 days after x-ray exposure, was the same as in the control. The number of proliferating cells, however, was reduced. The rate of cell production in the irradiated roots was reduced to approximately one-half that of the controls. The average nuclear volumes of active and dormant roots were 733 and 491 micro(3) respectively; thus the difference in the number of roentgens required to reduce growth to 37 per cent of that of the control can be attributed to the different average nuclear volumes. Therefore, the experiments suggest that part if not most of the differences in sensitivity between an actively dividing and an essentially non-dividing meristematic cell population resides in their different average nuclear volumes. Thus the law of Bergonie and Tribondeau needs to be reinterpreted, since the basic reason for the differences is secondary to whether or not the meristematic cells are proliferating
5859018
The incorporation of tritiated thymidine into the DNA of erythroblasts, primitive ependymal cells, and mesenchymal cells of 11-day mouse embryos was studied by radioautography at different times between 25 minutes and 18 hours after injection intraperitoneally. There was no labeling of mitotic figures until 1 hour after injection. Following this, mitotic figures were labeled for about 5.5 hours in primitive ependymal cells and mesenchymal cells, and for a longer period in erythroblasts. The percentage of the labeled primitive ependymal cells at various times after injection indicate a periodic migration into and out of the mitotic zone. The cell generation cycle of primitive ependymal cells and mesenchymal cells is similar to some kinds of adult cells. The cycle of the erythroblasts is more like that of the cells of aging mice
5859019
An acute effect of antigens on the nuclear histones of mouse thymocytes was investigated by means of cytophotometric measurements of thymocytes stained with ammoniacal-silver (A-S) and with fast green (FG). In addition, the DNA content was measured in terms of Feulgen staining. In terms of such staining it appeared that nuclei of control thymocytes contain a greater amount of nuclear histones and a higher histone/DNA ratio than do renal cell nuclei from the same animal. Within 1 hour after the injection of antigen the thymocyte nuclei appear to lose approximately 32 per cent and 20 per cent, respectively, of A-S and FG stainable nuclear proteins, while the Feulgen staining remains unchanged. Since the renal cell nuclei show no antigen-induced change in histone staining, the histone staining and histone/DNA ratios were found to be similar in the thymocytes and renal cells of the antigen-injected mice. The antigen-induced loss of thymocyte histones was also found to be associated with a change in the color of the A-S staining, from yellowish brown to black. This and other findings suggest that thymocyte nuclei contain an antigen-labile, lysine-rich histone. The implication of these observations in regard to the phenomenon of immunological competence is discussed and the need for continued investigation indicated
5859020
The fine structure of the transitional epithelium of rat ureter has been studied in thin sections with the electron microscope, including some stained cytochemically to show nucleoside triphosphatase activity. The epithelium is three to four cells deep with cuboidal or columnar basal cells, intermediate cells, and superficial squamous cells. The basal cells are attached by half desmosomes, or attachment plates, on their basal membranes to a basement membrane which separates the epithelium from the lamina propria. Fine extracellular fibres, ca. 100 A in diameter, are to be found in the connective tissue layer immediately below the basement membrane of this epithelium. The plasma membranes of the basal and intermediate cells and the lateral and basal membranes of the squamous cells are deeply interdigitated, and nucleoside triphosphatase activity is associated with them. All the cells have a dense feltwork of tonofilaments which ramify throughout the cytoplasm. The existence of junctional complexes, comprising a zonula occludens, zonula adhaerens, and macula adhaerens or desmosome, between the lateral borders of the squamous cells is reported. It is suggested that this complex is the major obstacle to the free flow of water from the extracellular spaces into the hypertonic urine. The free luminal surface of the squamous cells and many cytoplasmic vesicles in these cells are bounded by an unusually thick plasma membrane. The three leaflets of this unit membrane are asymmetric, with the outer one about twice as thick as the innermost one. The vesicles and the plasma membrane maintain angular conformations which suggest the membrane to be unusually rigid. No nucleoside triphosphatase activity is associated with this membrane. Arguments are presented to support a suggestion that this thick plasma membrane is the morphological site of a passive permeability barrier to water flow across the cells, and that keratin may be included in the membrane structure. The possible origin of the thick plasma membrane in the Golgi complex is discussed. Bodies with heterogeneous contents, including characteristic hexagonally packed stacks of thick membranes, are described. It is suggested that these are "disposal units" for old or surplus thick membrane. A cell type is described, which forms only 0.1 to 0.5 per cent of the total cell population and contains bundles of tubular fibres or crystallites. Their origin and function are not known
5859023
Both roots of the olivo-cochlear nerve bundle to one ear were transected in the brain stems of 12 chinchillas. The animals were sacrificed at times ranging from 2 to 35 days after surgery. The normal olivo-cochlear terminals on the external hair cells in the cochleas of the control ears contained many mitochondria and small vesicles of constant size. The earliest evidence for degeneration was the presence of fine 100 A filaments in the proximal parts of the terminals. These were visible at 2 days. Animals sacrificed at later times showed a greater number of filaments and fewer vesicles, but few mitochondrial changes. After 1 week, disintegration of the terminals was more prominent. A few terminals showed mitochondrial swelling and lysis of the plasma membrane but few or no filaments within the first week. These latter terminals were interpreted as representing a more rapid process of disintegration than those terminals characterized by numerous filaments and seemingly unchanged mitochondria
5859730
A technique for electrophoretic analysis of the hemoglobin mixtures from single erythrocytes has been developed. Hemoglobin mixtures were separated into their constituents, A(2), A, C, S, and J, at least qualitatively
5859731
An alcoholic extract of Solanum dulcamara L., a plant widely used in folk medicine for treating cancers and warts, shows tumor-inhibitory activity against Sarcoma 180 in mice. Systematic fractionation of the extract has led to isolation and characterization of beta-solamarine as an active principle
5859732
Each retinal cone cell of the female contains a sex-chromatin body not present in coinparable material from the male. Therefore the lack of detectable "patch" formation in female heterozygotes for red color-blindness (as expected from the X-inactivation hypothesis) cannot be attributed to failure of Barr-body formation
5859733
When succinate is used to protect rats against the toxicity of oxygen at high pressure, 100 percent survive, with normal or above normal concentrations of adenosine triphosphate being present in the cerebral hemisphere, liver, and kidney. In contrast, 90 percent of the nonprotected animals died during exposure. In corresponding tissues of surviving nonprotected animals adenosine triphosphate concentrations are markedly reduced
5859922
The uptake, intracellular transport, and secretion of protein by guinea pig wound fibroblasts was studied by electron microscope radioautography using L-proline-3,4-H(3) as a tracer. Experiments were performed to determine the curve of concentration of free amino acid in the blood after intraperitoneal administration of the labeled proline. Radioautographs were quantitatively analyzed and the concentration of isotope, in grains per unit area, was determined for the following cellular and extracellular compartments: ergastoplasm, Golgi complex, peripheral cytoplasmic structures, and collagen. The concentration of label, expressed as number of grains per unit area of each subcellular system, reveals the period during which each cellular compartment is maximally labeled, and presents a clearer picture of the passage of the label through each of these compartments. The data demonstrate appearance of the label at maximum concentration in the ergastoplasm 15 minutes after injection, and this compartment remains maximally labeled for 2 hours. In the Golgi complex, concentration is not maximal until 60 minutes after injection of isotope, and appears to decrease before or at about the same rate as that of the ergastoplasm. The present experiment is consistent with previous light microscope radioautographic studies, and no storage phase was found in the fibroblasts. The findings are not simply consistent with a direct precursor-product relationship between the contents of the ergastoplasm and those of the Golgi complex. Morphologic observations of regions in the fibroblast interpretable as possible sites of communication between the ergastoplasm and the extracellular space, together with the kinetic studies, permit the suggestion of an alternate pathway of passage of at least some of the synthesized protein directly from the ergastoplasmic cisternae to the cell exterior
5859923
The three chief physicochemical theories of the oxygen-hemoglobin equilibrium in vogue 40 years ago still influence current thought on the problem. Although the Hill theory lost its fundamental basis some 40 years ago, the famous empiric equation to which it gave rise is still much used, as a useful phenomenological expression, only involving two disposable constants. The Haldane theory, of which a difference in aggregation of oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin was a fundamental feature, lay for many years dormant but has recently had an astonishing reawakening through the work on lamprey hemoglobin, which clearly reveals such differences in aggregation. Lamprey hemoglobin might thus be called a "Haldane type" hemoglobin. Adair's four-stage intermediate compound theory still seems applicable in the case of hemoglobins such as those of sheep, whose tetramer molecules do not tend to dissociate into dimers, and which might therefore be called "Adair type" hemoglobins. Horse and human hemoglobins appear to reveal both "Haldane" and "Adair" behaviour. The effects of pH, temperature, and protein concentration on the oxygen-equilibrium of sheep hemoglobin are summarised, and it is shown that, although the equilibrium curves are often isomorphous over their middle range, intensive work at the top and bottom of the curves reveals considerable differences in the relative effects of these factors on the several equilibrium constants of Adair's four intermediate equations. In the last section an account is given of preliminary experimental attempts to interpret the oxygen- and carbon monoxide-equilibrium curves of whole human blood, under physiological conditions in terms of the Adair intermediate compound hypothesis
5859925
SEVERAL TOPICS ARE DEALT WITH IN DISCUSSING THE REACTIONS OF MOLECULAR OXYGEN, BUT A COMMON GOAL IS PURSUED IN EACH: to try to understand the reactions in terms of the fundamental properties of the oxygen molecule, and of the other reactants. The paper first describes the electronic structure of oxygen and of two low-lying electronically excited states. Concern with the low-lying electronically excited states is no longer the sole property of spectroscopists; recently, evidence has been presented for the participation of such activated molecules in chemical reactions. The chemistry of oxygen is dominated by the fact that the molecule in the ground state has two unpaired electrons, whereas the products of oxidation in many important reactions have zero spin. In its reactions with transition metal ions the restrictions imposed by the spin state of the oxygen molecule are easily circumvented. A number of reactions of oxygen with metal ions have been studied in considerable detail; conclusions on basic aspects of the reaction mechanism are outlined. Among the most interesting reactions of oxygen are those in which it is reversibly absorbed by reducing agents. Reversible absorption to form a peroxide in the bound state is possible; some of the conditions which must be fulfilled by a reducing system to qualify as storing oxygen in this way are reasonably well understood and are here enunciated. Little has been done on the formation of oxygen from water; some factors involved in this process are discussed
5859927
The nuclear reactions occurring in the cores of stars which are believed to produce the element oxygen are first described. Evidence for the absence of free oxygen in the early atmosphere of the earth is reviewed. Mechanisms of creation of atmospheric oxygen by photochemical processes are then discussed in detail. Uncertainty regarding the rate of diffusion of water vapor through the cold trap at 70 km altitude in calculating the rate of the photochemical production of oxygen is avoided by using data for the concentration of hydrogen atoms at 90 km obtained from the Meinel OH absorption bands. It is estimated that the present atmospheric oxygen content could have been produced five to ten times during the earth's history. It is shown that the isotopic composition of atmospheric oxygen is not that of photosynthetic oxygen. The fractionation of oxygen isotopes by organic respiration and oxidation occurs in a direction to enhance the O(18) content of the atmosphere and compensates for the O(18) dilution resulting from photosynthetic oxygen. Thus, an oxygen isotope cycle exists in nature
5861698
A recently developed method of determining the number and size of particles suspended in a conducting solution is to pump the suspension through a small orifice having an immersed electrode on each side to supply electrical current. The current changes due to the passage of particles of resistivity different from that of the solution. Theoretical expressions are developed which relate the current change caused by such particles to their volume and shape. It is found that most biological cells may be treated as dielectric particles whose capacitive effects are negligible. Electrolytic tank measurements on models confirm the theoretical development, and electric field plots of model orifices are used to predict the observed pulse shapes. An equivalent circuit of the orifice-electrode system is analyzed and shows that the current pulse may be made conductivity-independent when observed with a zero input impedance amplifier
5861699
A method for the determination of the affinity constants and transfer rate constants of an equalizing selective transport system is derived from the simple transport mechanism, and applied to monosaccharide movements in human red cells. It is similar to the method of Widdas but does not require his approximations. Results are compared with those of the other workers
5861700
Equations describing the movement of sugars during induced uphill transport were derived on the assumption of a simple carrier transport mechanism and subjected to experimental verification. Since there was good agreement between the experimental points and the theoretical curves, no changes in the original postulates were required
5861701
A format has been established for the presentation of steroid structural data which may prove to be useful in the consideration of the possible structural-functional relationships of steroids in biological systems. In preparing this format the detailed structural information for all steroids with known crystallographic structures has been computed and summarized, including bond lengths and angles, non-planarity coefficients, dihedral angles, length of the steroid nucleus, and side group inclinations. From the structural point of view it is interesting to note that (a) bond lengths do not differ significantly from the theoretical values, (b) bond angles do differ significantly from the theoretical values, (c) the non-planarity coefficient of the steroid molecule seems to be a function of the number of angular methyl groups but is unaffected by the presence of one heavy atom, (d) except where aromatic bonds are present the non-planarity coefficients of the two-ring and one-ring subdivisions of the steroid nucleus is 0.25 A, (e) the average non-planarity coefficient of the ring joins and "seat" portions of the chairs is 0.03 A, (f) dihedral angles deviate from the theoretically expected values and also show wide variation in the steroids studied, (g) the length of the steroid nucleus is variable, (h) analysis of side group inclination data must be deferred until more steroid structural information is available. From the biological point of view it is currently impossible to estimate the importance of each steroid structural feature in determining physiological function
5861702
A probabilistic method of analysis of spike trains is presented which provides a complete statistical description of spike sequences and allows the elucidation of some of the properties of the neural interconnections producing the output patterns. The flight motor system of the blowfly, Calliphora terraenovae, is analyzed by this method. Individual motor units show large, non-serially correlated, cycle-to-cycle variations in frequency superimposed upon long term frequency trends. These trends are apparently not generated by averaging the cycle-to-cycle variations in input excitation over a long time period. The different motor units share the same short term input excitation and the excitation causing long term trends. Units in different muscles show no preferred phase or latency relationships; they maintain similar frequencies but their phases drift through all possible values. Frequency control without phase control may be accomplished by shared excitation with a total input frequency many times the output frequency. Units in the same muscle maintain strong phase relationships. Constant phase relationships during variations in frequency may, among other models, be due to reciprocal inhibition or a common linearly rising input. Sensory feedback cannot account for the degree of phase or frequency regulation shown. Thus central patterning of the output sequence is necessary, as in the locust, and the two flight systems can be considered as integradable evolutionary variations
5861703
Aligned deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) molecules exhibit a large absorption anisotropy in the ultraviolet (UV) region of the spectrum (11). Also, the UV action spectra of most bacteria resemble the absorption spectrum of DNA (23), implying that inactivation is directly proportional to the UV absorbed by the bacterial DNA. Hence, the UV sensitivity of aligned uniaxial bacteria might be anisotropic with respect to polarization of the incident UV (17, 19). Any inactivation anisotropy would depend upon the orientation of DNA within the bacteria, as well as upon the alignment of bacteria, and could provide a more sensitive indication of in vivo DNA orientation than is presently available using optical methods (5, 12-16). Using an electric field of 3.5 x 10(6) cycles/second, samples of bacteria of strain LS-301 were aligned in a quartz cell and were irradiated with UV (lambda = 2652 A) polarized perpendicular and parallel to the alignment direction. The resultant survival curves resolved no inactivation anisotropy. This result is interpreted to mean that there was insufficient bacterial DNA alignment to give a detectable anisotropy. The minimum average DNA alignment necessary to have resolved an anisotropy is calculated to be 15 per cent in an axial direction (bases perpendicular to the bacterial axis) or 30 per cent in a radial direction (bases parallel to the bacterial axis)
5861704
The properties of the steady states of a system composed of two solutions separated by a quite general type of ion exchange membrane having fixed sites are derived as functions of the compositions of the solutions and of the difference of electric potential between the two solutions. These properties are evaluated with the restraints that the membrane is solely permeable to cations or anions, no flow of solvent occurs, and the solutions contain no more than two permeant ionic species, which are monovalent. Under the assumptions that the difference of standard chemical potentials of the permeant species and the ratio of their mobilities are constant throughout the membrane, even when the spacing of sites is variable, explicit expressions are derived for the electric current, individual fluxes, and concentration profiles. An unexpectedly simple dependence of these expressions upon distribution of sites is found
5861705
The intrinsic birefringence of macromolecules can be obtained directly from flow birefringence measurements in a solvent whose refractive index matches that of the solute. A small and positive value (approximately 0.01) was found for the helical polypeptide, poly-gamma-benzyl-L-glutamate. The birefringence in solvents of varying index calculated from the Peterlin-Stuart theory using this value of the intrinsic birefringence did not agree with experimental values. Considerations of polydispersity and shear deformation indicated that the discrepancy could not be attributed to these effects. Also it could not be explained in terms of specific solvent effects. It is concluded that optical properties cannot be derived from the continuum model employed by Peterlin and Stuart. Much better agreement was obtained with a helical dipole necklace model
5861706
The constancy of the Moffitt optical rotatory dispersion parameters for polypeptides in different solvents was tested by dispersion measurements on poly-gamma-benzyl-L-glutamate in fifty-five solvents and solvent mixtures. b(0) was not constant but varied linearly with the refractive index of the solvent according to the equation -b(0) = 1701 - 730.3 n(8). This variation could not be explained by changes in configuration of the polypeptide. a(0) also showed a trend with solvent index but the values were widely scattered. lambda(0) did not show a statistically significant dependence on solvent index. The variation in b(0) can be interpreted as an effect of solvent polarizability on the frequencies of optically active transitions
5861707
The Moffitt b(0) parameter of poly-L-glutamic acid in the presumed helical state varied with solvent composition, ranging in magnitude from less than 600 degrees in aqueous solution to 800 degrees in methanol. b(0) was also dependent on temperature throughout the excessable temperature range. The value in aqueous solution is at least 100 degrees smaller than the values for a number of polypeptides in organic solvents, when compared at the same refractive index. Therefore the optical rotatory dispersion data do not provide evidence that the molecule is completely helical in aqueous solution. Since other types of evidence for helical content are not sufficient to establish that PLGA is a complete helix, the helical content of proteins and polypeptides determined by rotatory dispersion measurements should be regarded as uncertain by about 20 per cent
5861708
The AC electrical impedance of frog skin was measured in the range 1 cycle/second to 50 kc/second by injecting current sinusoidally at low current density. The behavior of the skin was found to be linear so the usual concepts of impedance could be validly employed. In the range 1 cycle/second to 5 kc/second, the impedance traces out a circular arc locus with its center off the real axis; thus the skin could be represented by a series resistance and a parallel combination of a conductance and a phase shift element. The phase shift element has an impedance angle of about 80 degrees , current leading voltage, with an equivalent capacitance of about 2 muf/cm(2). The phase shift and the equivalent capacitance were independent of the experimental conditions. The parallel conductance, which was responsible for most of the low frequency impedance, could be subdivided into two approximately equal conductances, one associated with sodium ion current and the other associated with chloride ion current. Both currents were determined mainly by the concentrations of the respective ions bathing the outside of the skin. The response to changes in concentration and the response to CO(2) indicated that the chloride current was passive, but the sodium current appeared to be associated with the active transport mechanism; little sodium could pass through the skin unless associated with active transport
5862399
1. Three random linear copolymers composed of two or three of the amino acids d-tyrosine, d-glutamic acid, d-alanine and d-lysine, and a branched multichain copolymer with a poly-d-lysine backbone and polymeric side chains of d-tyrosine and d-glutamic acid, were found to be non-antigenic in rabbits, by precipitin and passive cutaneous anaphylaxis, and in guinea pigs, by delayed hypersensitivity tests. The corresponding four copolymers of l-amino acids were shown to be antigenic by all the three criteria. 2. No immunological cross-reactions were observed between the polypeptides composed of d-amino acids and the corresponding l-amino acid copolymers. 3. Similarly, an azobenzenearsonic acid conjugate of poly-d-tyrosine was shown to be non-antigenic in guinea pigs, in contrast with an analogous conjugate of poly-l-tyrosine. Animals sensitized with the conjugate of poly-l-tyrosine did not exhibit delayed skin reactions, when cross-tested with the d-conjugate. 4. A linear polymer composed of d-tyrosine, l-glutamic acid and l-alanine was found to be immunogenic and to cross-react with the corresponding polymer composed exclusively of d-amino acids
5862400
1. Livers of ureotelic and uricotelic animals possess the capacity, to a varying extent, of hydrolysing l-arginine and other guanidino compounds. 2. Three different enzymes responsible for such activity have been separated and partially characterized. They are the ;ureotelic' arginase, the ;uricotelic' arginase (both of them specific for l-arginine) and the guanidinobutyrate ureohydrolase (able to hydrolyse beta-guanidinopropionate, gamma-guanidinobutyrate and d-arginine but not l-arginine or guanidinoacetate). 3. The implication of the advent of a ;ureotelic' arginase in the integration of the Krebs-Henseleit cycle is discussed
5862401
1. Correlation between elution volume, V(e), and molecular weight was investigated for gel filtration of proteins of molecular weights ranging from 3500 (glucagon) to 820000 (alpha-crystallin) on Sephadex G-200 columns at pH7.5. 2. Allowing for uncertainties in the molecular weights, the results for most of the carbohydrate-free globular proteins fitted a smooth V(e)-log(mol.wt.) curve. In the lower part of the molecular-weight range the results were similar to those obtained with Sephadex G-75 and G-100 gels. 3. V(e)-log(mol.wt.) curves based on results with the three gels are taken to represent the behaviour of ;typical' globular proteins, and are proposed as standard data for the uniform interpretation of gel-filtration experiments. 4. Some glycoproteins, including gamma-globulins and fibrinogen, do not conform to the standard relationship. The effect of shape and carbohydrate content on the gel-filtration behaviour of proteins is discussed. 5. As predicted by the theoretical studies of other authors, correlation exists between the gel-filtration behaviour and diffusion coefficients of proteins. 6. The lower molecular-weight limit for complete exclusion of typical globular proteins from Sephadex G-200 varies with the swelling of the gel, but is usually &gt;10(6). 7. The concentration-dependent dissociation of glutamate dehydrogenase was observed in experiments with Sephadex G-200, and the sub-unit molecular weight estimated as 250000. The free sub-units readily lose enzymic activity. 8. Recognition of the atypical gel-filtration behaviour of gamma-globulins necessitates an alteration to several molecular weights previously estimated with Sephadex G-100 (Andrews, 1964). New values are: yeast glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase, 128000; bovine intestinal alkaline phosphatase, 130000; Aerobacter aerogenes glycerol dehydrogenase, 140000; milk alkaline phosphatase, 180000
5862402
1. The distributions of (14)C have been compared in the glucose and galactose moieties of lactose obtained from cows' udders perfused with blood containing [1-(14)C]-, [2-(14)C]- and [6-(14)C]-glucose. The (14)C of the glucose moiety was found in the same position as that of the administered glucose, but in the galactose moiety the (14)C from [2-(14)C]glucose was extensively randomized into positions 1 and 3. It is concluded that the glucose moiety arose from free glucose and the galactose moiety from hexose phosphate intermediates and that the latter reflected the randomization occurring through reactions of the pentose cycle. 2. The proportion of the glucose metabolized via the pentose cycle for those cells making lactose was estimated from the distribution of (14)C in the galactose moiety and found to be about 23% in one experiment and 30% in another experiment. 3. The yield and distribution of (14)C were determined in the glycerol of fat from the tissue in experiments with [2-(14)C]- and [6-(14)C]-glucose. There was a greater randomization of (14)C in the glycerol than in C-1, C-2 and C-3 of the galactose moiety of lactose. The ratio of the yield of (14)C in the glycerol from [2-(14)C]glucose to that of [6-(14)C]glucose was very low and from this ratio it was calculated that less than 10% of the glucose was metabolized by the Embden-Meyerhof pathway and approx. 60-70% was converted into lactose. 4. [6-(14)C]Glucose and [6-(3)H]glucose were used to determine whether the (3)H at the C-6 position remained stable during its conversion into glyceride of fat from the tissue. Twenty-seven per cent of the (3)H was labilized during this conversion. Therefore it was not possible to use [2-(14)C]glucose and [6-(3)H]glucose in a single experiment to measure the relative conversion of the C-2 and C-6 positions of glucose to glycerol
5862403
1. Inexpensive scintillation mixtures are described which enable the detection of as little as 40mumuc of (14)C in aqueous solution with an efficiency of counting of over 80%. 2. A rapid method for the counting of alkaline, acidic and neutral aqueous solutions of up to 1ml. volume is described. Ethanol or 2-ethoxyethanol is used as blending agent. 3. The scintillation counting of alkaline solutions is applied to the accurate determination of the specific activity of (14)C-labelled proteins from plant tissues. 4. Attention has been paid to the importance of a standardized washing procedure for the removal of all traces of radioactive material from glassware
5862405
1. A highly dextrorotatory polysaccharide (alpha(D)+232 degrees in n-sodium hydroxide), previously isolated as a fragment of Aspergillus niger cell walls, was prepared from whole mycelium and subjected to partial acid hydrolysis. 2. Fractionation of the hydrolysate on a charcoal column with a linear gradient of ethanol yielded a series of oligosaccharides. The disaccharide member was shown to be nigerose (3-O-alpha-d-glucopyranosyl-alpha-d-glucopyranose), although a small proportion of the disaccharide peak (10%) was present as maltose despite the fact that all the nigeran had been removed from the starting material. 3. The oligosaccharides forming the main peaks from the column were shown to be members of a polymer-homologous series (nigerodextrins) by (a) the relationship between the logarithm of their chromatographic mobility and degree of polymerization, (b) obeying the Freudenberg relationship, and (c) partial acid hydrolysis
5862404
1. The cell-wall composition of Aspergillus niger has been investigated. Analysis shows the presence of six sugars, glucose, galactose, mannose, arabinose, glucosamine and galactosamine, all in the d-configuration, except that a small amount of l-galactose may be present. Sixteen common amino acids are also present. 2. The wall consists chiefly of neutral carbohydrate (73-83%) and hexosamine (9-13%), with smaller amounts of lipid (2-7%), protein (0.5-2.5%) and phosphorus (less than 0.1%). The acetyl content (3.0-3.4%) corresponds to 1.0mole/mole of hexosamine nitrogen. 3. A fractionation of the cell-wall complex was achieved, with or without a preliminary phenol extraction, by using n-sodium hydroxide. Though this caused some degradation, 30-60% of the wall could be solubilized (depending on the preparation). Analyses on several fractions suggest that fractionation procedures bring about some separation of components although not in a clear-cut fashion. 4. Cell-wall preparations were shown to yield a fraction having [alpha](D) approx. +240 degrees (in n-sodium hydroxide) and consisting largely of glucose. This was separated into two subfractions, one of which had [alpha](D)+281 degrees (in n-sodium hydroxide) and had properties resembling the polysaccharide nigeran; the other had [alpha](D) +231 degrees (in n-sodium hydroxide). It is suggested that nigeran is a cell-wall component
5862408
1. The nature and concentration of ubiquinone in six species of Athiorhodaceae have been examined after growth under aerobic and photosynthetic conditions. 2. Increase in ubiquinone concentration during adaptive synthesis of photosynthetic pigments by Rhodopseudomonas spheroides incubated under low-aeration conditions was observed. 3. The nature of the carbon source was found to have a marked effect on ubiquinone, as well as bacteriochlorophyll, concentrations
5862406
1. The total RNA and the RNA present in 27000g pellet (probably composed of chloroplasts, nuclei and mitochondria) and in 27000g supernatant (probably composed of microsomes and soluble proteins) fractions (separated by centrifugation at 27000g of a leaf homogenate prepared in 0.5m-sucrose-0.02m-tris-HCl, pH7.6) of barley leaves were extracted by phenol-sodium lauryl sulphate and their elution profiles on Sephadex G-200 and on ECTEOLA-cellulose anion-exchanger were examined and their nucleotide compositions and the melting curves were determined. 2. The pellet and the supernatant fractions contained respectively about 55% and 20% of the total RNA, whereas 25% of the total RNA was lost during homogenization of the leaf tissue with sucrose-buffer. 3. The total RNA or the RNA from pellet or supernatant fractions, which by its behaviour on Sephadex G-200 columns was found to be predominantly of high molecular weight (i.e. of ribosomal origin), produced about 13 peaks on ECTEOLA-cellulose columns. The RNA species in the pellet and supernatant fractions probably resembled each other in molecular size or secondary structure or both. However, they were present in relatively different amounts in these fractions. 4. The T(m) (i.e. the temperature at which 50% of the maximal increase in extinction had occurred) of total RNA and of RNA from pellet fraction was 64.5 degrees whereas T(m) of RNA from the supernatant fraction was 73 degrees . The total RNA and the RNA from pellet fraction also resembled each other in nucleotide composition, and the RNA from the supernatant fraction in accordance with its high T(m) had a high GMP+CMP content
5862407
1. Rhodesian copalwood (Guibourtia coleosperma) contains three diastereo-isomeric leuco-fisetinidins. These consist of the (-)-2,3-cis-3,4-cis (2R,3R,4R) and (-)-2,3-cis-3,4-trans (2R,3R,4S) 3',4',7-trihydroxyflavan-3,4-diols, and the third was shown to be a 2,3-trans-3,4-cis isomer by means of paper ionophoresis. 2. There occurrence in similar proportions as tannin precursors also in the tropical hardwoods G. tessmannii and G. demeusii implies a close taxonomic relationship between these, and with G. coleosperma. 3. Epimerization of the natural (-)-3',4',7- trihydroxy-2,3-trans-flavan-3,4-trans-diol affords a mixture from which the (-)-2,3-cis-3,4-cis isomer was separated readily, but the (-)-2,3-trans-3,4-cis isomer was obtained with difficulty. These were formed by epimerization of the (-)-2,3-trans-3,4-trans isomer at C-2 and C-4, and at C-4, respectively
5862409
1. The effects of cyanogen bromide on horse-heart cytochrome c and horse-heart myoglobin have been investigated. Cytochrome c yielded four fragments, of which two were haemopeptides. The two colourless peptides had amino acid compositions corresponding to those that are expected, on the basis of the sequence proposed for horse-heart cytochrome c by Margoliash, Smith, Kreil &amp; Tuppy (1961), from cleavage at both methionine residues. Of the two haemopeptides, one was isolated and shown to be that derived from cleavage at only one methionine residue, that nearer to the C-terminus of the peptide chain. 2. Myoglobin also gave four peptides, three of which accounted for the total amino acid content of the intact protein. The fourth fragment arose by cleavage at a single methionine residue, that nearer the C-terminus. Characterization of this fourth fragment made it possible to deduce the order of arrangement of the fragments in the intact molecule
5862411
1. Oxalic acid is separated from interfering substances by extraction with tri-n-butyl phosphate followed by co-precipitation with calcium sulphate. The precipitated oxalic acid is then reduced to glyoxylic acid, which is coupled with resorcinol to form a coloured fluorescent complex. 2. The spectrofluorometric method described is sensitive and highly specific, the minimum detectable amount of oxalic acid being 0.9mumole under the recommended conditions. 3. The concentration of oxalic acid in blood from 15 normal adults was 200-320mug./100ml. For serum the range was 135-280mug./100ml. The urinary excretion of oxalic acid by 60 normal adults on a normal diet was 9.0-28.5mg./24hr
5862410
1. Four of the known components of wall preparations of vegative cells of Bacillus licheniformis N.C.T.C. 6346 have been isolated free of each other after successive treatments of the walls with trichloroacetic acid and lysozyme: (a) a mucopeptide consisting of glucosamine, muramic acid, alphain-diaminopimelic acid, glutamic acid and alanine in the molar proportions 1.0:0.8:1.0:1.2:1.7; (b) an insoluble protein; (c) teichoic acid containing phosphorus and glucose in equimolar amounts; (d) teichuronic acid containing equimolar amounts of N-acetylgalactosamine and glucuronic acid, as found by Janczura, Perkins &amp; Rogers (1961). 2. Evidence has been obtained for the presence in the soluble fraction obtained by lysozyme treatment of whole walls of a stable covalent complex of the teichoic acid and the mucopeptide components. 3. The molar ratio of phosphorus to glucose in the teichoic acid present in intact walls or the soluble fractions obtained by extraction of the walls with lysozyme or trichloroacetic acid is 1.0:0.25, in contrast with values of about unity obtained for the purified teichoic acid. 4. Intact walls have been shown to contain polyribitol phosphate chains bearing different amounts of glucose substituents. 5. Trichloroacetic acid extracts of walls also contain polyribitol phosphate compounds of different chain lengths. Dialysis of trichloroacetic acid extracts removes the short chains of polyribitol phosphate that have been found to carry only very low amounts of glucose side chains. By contrast, the longer chains present in the non-diffusible fraction contain phosphorus and glucose in almost equimolar amounts
5862412
1. alpha-Crystallin has been isolated from the cortex of ox lens by isoelectric precipitation followed by chromatography on DEAE-cellulose. The amino acid composition is in agreement with that reported for alpha-crystallin prepared by a different method. There is one thiol group/20000g. of protein (20000 is the order of magnitude of the sub-unit molecular weight), and disulphide bonds are absent. 2. The thiol group has been alkylated with radioactive iodoacetate in the presence of urea. 3. Partial acid hydrolysis of the alkylated protein gives, according to the conditions, mainly three radioactive peptides or nearly exclusively one radioactive dipeptide. The dipeptide is N-seryl-(S-carboxymethyl)cysteine, Ser-CMCys. The two other peptides are probably the tripeptides related to Ser-CMCys. 4. The simplest interpretation of these results is that the sequence around the cysteine residue is a common structural feature of the sub-units of alpha-crystallin
5862413
1. Esters of gamma-guanidino-l-alpha-toluene-p-sulphonamidobutyric acid (alpha-N-toluene-p-sulphonyl-l-norarginine) have been synthesized and shown to be hydrolysed by bovine trypsin and thrombin. As substrates for these enzymes, they were better than esters of alpha-N-toluene-p-sulphonyl-l-homoarginine or of alpha-N-toluene-p-sulphonyl-l-ornithine but not as good as esters of alpha-N-toluene-p-sulphonyl-l-arginine. 2. With trypsin as catalyst, the methyl and propyl esters are hydrolysed at the same rate at high substrate concentrations and hence deacylation of the acyl-enzyme appears to be rate-determining. In the presence of thrombin, however, the methyl ester is hydrolysed much faster than the n-propyl ester. 3. The variation of k(0) with pH indicates that groups with pK((app.)) values of 7.05+/-0.02 and 6.53+/-0.02 must be dissociated in trypsin and thrombin respectively for hydrolysis to proceed. 4. Activation constants have been determined for the trypsin-catalysed hydrolysis of methyl gamma-guanidino-l-alpha-toluene-p-sulphonamidobutyrate and have been compared with the corresponding constants for the hydrolysis of homologous substrates. 5. Cholate increases k(0) and decreases K(m); the effects are more pronounced with thrombin than with trypsin
5862414
1. Pseudomonas pyocyanea N.C.T.C. 8203 produces a beta-lactamase that is inducible by high concentrations of benzylpenicillin or cephalosporin C. Methicillin appeared to be a relatively poor inducer, but this could be attributed in part to its ability to mask the enzyme produced. Much of the enzyme is normally cell-bound. 2. No evidence was obtained that the crude enzyme preparation consisted of more than one beta-lactamase and the preparation appeared to contain no significant amount of benzylpenicillin amidase or of an acetyl esterase. 3. The maximum rate of hydrolysis of cephalosporin C and several other derivatives of 7-aminocephalosporanic acid by the crude enzyme was more than five times that of benzylpenicillin. Methicillin, cloxacillin, 6-aminopenicillanic acid and 7-aminocephalosporanic acid were resistant to hydrolysis, and methicillin and cloxacillin were powerful competitive inhibitors of the action of the enzyme on easily hydrolysable substrates. 4. Cephalosporin C, cephalothin and cephaloridine yielded 2 equiv. of acid/mole on enzymic hydrolysis, and deacetylcephalorsporin C yielded 1 equiv./mole. Evidence was obtained that the opening of the beta-lactam ring of cephalosporin C and cephalothin is accompanied by the spontaneous expulsion of an acetoxy group and that of cephaloridine by the expulsion of pyridine. 5. A marked decrease in the minimum inhibitory concentration of benzylpenicillin and several hydrolysable derivatives of 7-aminocephalosporanic acid was observed when the size of the inoculum was decreased. This suggested that the production of a beta-lactamase contributed to the factors responsible for the very high resistance of Ps. pyocyanea to these substances. It was therefore concluded that the latter might show synergism with the enzyme inhibitors, methicillin and cloxacillin, against this organism
5862415
1. Acetylcarnitine added in catalytic amounts to kidney mitochondria produces an active oxidation of endogenous fatty acids. 2. In conditions of mitochondrial ;aging', under which acetate is not oxidized, acetylcarnitine also promotes the oxidation of this exogenous substrate. 3. Dinitrophenol completely abolishes the action of acetylcarnitine. 4. Carnitine is ineffective both in the oxidation of endogenous fatty acids and of exogenous acetate. 5. The action of acetylcarnitine is shared, though to a smaller extent, by pyruvate. 6. The mechanism of acetylcarnitine action has been interpreted by considering that the readily oxidizable acetyl group of acetylcarnitine can supply the initial investment of energy needed to start fatty acid oxidation
5862416
1. Cysteamine is oxidized to hypotaurine by an enzyme extracted from horse kidney, with sulphur or sulphide acting as a cofactor. It has been now found that, when the enzyme is omitted, sulphur and sulphide are able to catalyse the oxidation of cysteamine to cystamine by molecular oxygen. 2. Methylene blue may be used in catalytic amounts as a cofactor in the enzymic oxidation of cysteamine to hypotaurine in the place of sulphur or sulphide. The effect of methylene blue is not light-dependent and is not abolished by catalase. Other redox dyes with E'(0) higher than that of methylene blue are also used as cofactors. 3. A property common to all the cofactors is that they are necessary for the enzymic process in catalytic amounts, though they depress the final amount of hypotaurine produced when added over a critical concentration. All the cofactors share also the property of being catalysts for the non-enzymic oxidation of cysteamine to cystamine. 4. Methylene blue is reduced by cysteamine under anaerobic conditions, and is reoxidized in the presence of air. The rate of the reduction is not accelerated by the enzyme, indicating that the dye does not act in this reaction as a hydrogen carrier from the enzyme to oxygen. The possible mechanism of action of methylene blue and of the other cofactors is discussed
5862417
1. The components of an enzyme preparation from Aspergillus niger, which hydrolysed substrates containing beta-(1--&gt;3)- and beta-(1--&gt;4)-glucosidic linkages, were separated by calcium phosphate and Dowex 1 column chromatography. 2. The hydrolytic activity of each fraction from both types of column towards laminaribiose, laminarin, carboxymethylpachyman, pachydextrins, salicin, cellobiose, cellopentaose and swollen cellulose was tested. 3. The activity towards the beta-(1--&gt;3)-glucosidic substrates was found in three well-separated groups of fractions. The differences in action pattern of these groups is discussed. 4. Preparative-scale chromatography that enabled the separation of a beta-(1--&gt;4)-glucan-glucanohydrolase component substantially free of activity towards beta-(1--&gt;3)-glucosidic substrates is described. Residual beta-(1--&gt;3)-glucan-hydrolase activity was removed by adsorption on to insoluble laminarin at pH3.5
5862419
1. No primary hydrogen acceptor other than phenazine methosulphate has been found for the alcohol dehydrogenase from Pseudomonas sp. M27. 2. None of a wide range of vitamins or cofactors has any effect on the activity of the enzyme. 3. The enzyme is far less sensitive to metal-chelating agents and thiol reagents than are other alcohol dehydrogenases. 4. Methanol is oxidized at least as fast as other alcohols by this enzyme and its well-defined substrate specificity is different from that of other alcohol dehydrogenases. Only primary alcohols are oxidized; the general formula for an oxidizable substrate is R.CH(2).OH, where R may be H or [Formula: see text] 5. Whole organisms oxidize only those alcohols that are oxidized by the isolated enzyme
5862418
1. A beta-(1--&gt;4)-glucan hydrolase prepared from Aspergillus niger, as described by Clarke &amp; Stone (1965a), showed a pH optimum in the range 4.5-6 and K(m) 0.25% when acting on a cellulose dextrin sulphate substrate. 2. The hydrolase rapidly decreased the specific viscosity of carboxymethylcellulose with a small increase in the production of reducing sugars. The identity of the products of hydrolysis of cellotetraose, cellopentaose and their reduced analogues indicate a preferential cleavage of non-terminal glucosidic linkages. The enzyme may be described as beta-(1--&gt;4)-glucan 4-glucanohydrolase (EC 3.2.1.4). 3. In addition to carboxymethylcellulose, cellulose dextrins, cellopentaose and cellotetraose the enzyme fraction hydrolysed lichenin, oat and barley glucans, ivory-nut mannan and a glucomannan from Konjak flour. No hydrolysis of wheat-straw beta-(1--&gt;4)-xylan, Lupinus albus beta-(1--&gt;4)-galactan, pneumococcal type III polysaccharide, chitin, hyaluronic acid, laminarin, pachydextrins, carboxymethylpachyman or beta-(1--&gt;3)-oligoglucosides was detected. 4. The hydrolase showed no transglycosylase activity from cellodextrin or cellopentaose substrates to glucose or methanol acceptors. 5. The hydrolysis of cellodextrins was inhibited completely by 1.0mm-Hg(2+), 0.7mm-phenylmercuric nitrate and 1.0mm-iodine
5862420
1. The swelling and solubilization of foetal and adult bovine ligament over a range of pH values has been investigated. 2. Maximum swelling occurs at pH2.7 and pH8.5 for both types of ligament. Abover pH13 complete solubilization occurs. 3. Considerably greater swelling and solubilization occurs with foetal ligament below pH12. 4. The presence of 2m-sodium chloride markedly suppresses both swelling and solubilization. Above 1n-sodium hydroxide actual dehydration occurs and little or no protein is extracted. 5. It is suggested that the intermolecular cross-links in a considerable proportion of foetal elastin are weak and that extraction with aqueous salt solution at pH8.5 would provide optimum conditions for extracting soluble proteins, including soluble elastin if this is present
5862421
1. A new combined radioactivity-fluorescence method is described for urinary oestrone, which involves acid hydrolysis, extraction and purification of the phenolic fraction, saponification, a Girard T separation and alumina chromatography of acetylated oestrone. 2. Sulphuric acid fluorescence is used for quantitation and specificity is achieved by the addition of tritiated oestrone to the urine hydrolysate. This radioactive tracer functions both as an internal corrector for purification losses and enables the demonstration of constant specific activity through the oestrone peaks to act as an index of specificity in each determination. 3. By using one-fifth of a 24hr. urine sample, 1mug. of urinary oestrone/24hr. can be determined with an accuracy of +/-4%. Fluorescence emission spectra from processed urine samples are identical with that of authentic oestrone acetate. 4. The advantages of the method are its high sensitivity and specificity, which is achieved with relative convenience
5862422
1. The major metabolite of 2,4-dimethoxy-6-sulphanilamidopyrimidine (sulphadimethoxine) in urine in man is a non-reducing glucuronide, which has been isolated and characterized as its S-benzylthiouronium salt. 2. The same compound was made synthetically by standard methods from sodium sulphadimethoxine and methyl 2,3,4-tri-O-acetyl-1-bromoglucuronate. 3. On hydrolysis with acid, the glucuronide yielded sulphanilic acid, glucuronic acid and barbituric acid, and with beta-glucuronidase it slowly yielded sulphadimethoxine and glucuronic acid. 4. Evidence based on infrared spectra and other data showed that the urinary and synthetic glucuronide was 1-deoxy-1-[N(1)'-(2'',4''-dimethoxypyrimidin-6'' -yl)sulphanilamido-beta-d-glucosid]uronic acid or sulphadimethoxine N(1)-glucuronide. 5. N(1)-Methyl- and N(ring)-methyl derivatives of sulphadimethoxine and 4-methoxy-6-sulphanilamidopyrimidine were prepared and their infrared and ultraviolet spectra determined for comparison
5862423
1. Evidence has been produced for the formation of 5-phosphomevalonate from potassium dl-mevalonate by the latex of Hevea brasiliensis and by reconstituted freeze-dried serum obtained from this latex. 2. The enzyme, mevalonate kinase, catalysing the formation of 5-phosphomevalonate from potassium dl-mevalonate and ATP has been partially purified. 3. 5-Phosphomevalonate formed by the purified mevalonate kinase from potassium [2-(14)C]mevalonate has been shown to be incorporated by latex into rubber to about 2.4 times the extent of dl-mevalonate. 4. The enzyme can utilize inosine triphosphate as effectively as adenosine triphosphate as a phosphate donor and is also slightly active with uridine triphosphate. 5. The enzyme was fairly stable to a range of pH values and temperatures, the activity being optimum at pH7.5 and 60-70 degrees . The energy of activation was 10.7kcal./mole. The K(m) values were 0.13mm for potassium dl-mevalonate and 2.0mm for ATP at 30 degrees . 6. The enzyme required the presence of Mn(2+) (1mm) for maximum activity; this could be replaced by Mg(2+) (4mm), which was less effective, and by Ca(2+), which was far less effective. 6. Although the enzyme did not require cysteine or reduced glutathione for activation in aerobic conditions, it was inhibited by reagents known to react with thiol groups
5862424
1. The variation with pH of the excitation and fluorescence wavelengths and fluorescence intensity of several hydroxy- and amino-biphenyls has been investigated with a view to using the data for the determination of hydroxybiphenyls in biological material. 2. 2- and 3-Hydroxy-, 2,2'-dihydroxy-, and 2-, 3- and 4-amino-biphenyl exhibited excited-state ionization. 4-Hydroxy- and 4,4'-dihydroxybiphenyl did not, and showed normal fluorescence changes with pH. 3. Biphenyl and 2- and 4-methoxybiphenyl showed no changes in fluorescence in the range pH0-14. 4. 4,4'-Dihydroxybiphenyl showed fluorescent peaks corresponding to the un-ionized form, the monoanion and dianion at the appropriate pH values, but 2,2'-dihydroxybiphenyl showed fluorescent peaks corresponding to the un-ionized form and the monoanion only, suggesting that it did not form a dianion. 5. 3- and 4-Nitrobiphenyl were non-fluorescent. 6. These results are discussed
5862425
1. A study has been made of the enzymic hydroxylation of biphenyl by liver microsomal preparations from 11 species of animals, by using a fluorescence method for the micro-estimation of the hydroxylation products, 2- and 4-hydroxybiphenyl. 2. Livers from all species examined produced 4-hydroxybiphenyl, but only those from mice, hamsters, cats, coypus and frogs produced 2-hydroxybiphenyl as well. 3. Adult rat and rabbit livers produced only the 4-isomer, but livers from the young of these species also produced the 2-isomer. 4. The properties and requirements of the 4-hydroxylating enzyme of rabbit liver were studied. 5. The results are discussed and it is suggested that the 2- and 4-hydroxylating enzymes are different
5862498
The insect-trapping movement of the plant Dionaea muscipula (Venus's fly-trap) is mediated by the stimulation of mechanosensory hairs located on the surface of the trap. It is known that stimulation of the hairs is followed by action potentials which are propagated over the surface of the trap. It has been reported that action potentials always precede trap closure. The occurrence of non-propagated receptor potentials is reported here. Receptor potentials always precede the action potentials. The receptor potential appears to couple the mechanical stimulation step to the action potential step of the preying sequence. Receptor potentials elicited by mechanical stimulation of a sensory hair were measured by using the hair as an integral part of the current-measuring path. The tip of the hair was cut off exposing the medullary tissue; this provided a natural extension of the measuring electrode into the receptor region at the base of the hair. A measuring pipette electrode was slipped over the cut tip of the hair. Positive and negative receptor potentials were measured. Evidence is presented which supports the hypothesis that the positive and negative receptor potentials originate from independent sources. An analysis is made of (a) the relation of the parameters of mechanical stimuli to the magnitude of the receptor potential, and (b) the relation of the receptor potentials to the action potential. The hypothesis that the positive receptor potential is the generator of the action potential is consistent with these data
5862499
A high molecular weight fraction of a soluble Marsh muscle-relaxing preparation has been shown to contain a calcium-complexing substance. By examining the nature of the competition between this fraction and chelex-100 for calcium at various total calcium concentrations it has been possible to calculate the concentration and calcium stability constant of this calcium-complexing substance. Taking into account dilutions which occur during the preparation of fractions containing this substance its concentration may be estimated at about 2.10(-4) in muscle and its calcium stability constant was found to be about 1.5.10(5)M(-1). Preliminary evidence suggests that the calcium-binding substance is a protein
5862501
The values of membrane action potentials and maximum depolarization rates of single muscle fibers in normal Tyrode solution and in low sodium solutions containing as little as 20 per cent of the sodium chloride were measured with intracellular microelectrodes. Under these conditions the membrane potential remains unchanged up to 36 per cent of [Na(+)](out) concentration, whereas the overshoot of the action potential varies linearly with the logarithm of the external sodium concentration. The maximum depolarization rate is a linear function of the external sodium concentration. The results obtained support the ionic theory for sodium and the independence principle for sodium current related to the external sodium concentration
5862500
Ionic relationships in the giant ameba Chaos chaos were studied by analyzing bulk preparations of ground cytoplasm for K, Na, and Cl. Ion levels under normal conditions were compared with the levels in cells exposed to varying concentrations of different ions, for varying times and at different temperatures. By standard intracellular electrode techniques, the bioelectric potential, electrical resistance, and rectifying properties of the plasmalemma were studied on intact cells in media of different composition. The results obtained, when related to evidence from other studies on ion fluxes and osmotic relationships, suggest the following concept of ionic regulation in Chaos chaos. In the absence of active membrane uptake, the plasmalemma is essentially impermeable to anions but permeable to both K and Na, which enter passively. In the cold the cell does not discriminate between K and Na, the cytoplasmic level of K + Na is determined by a Donnan distribution, and osmotic imbalance leads to slow swelling. At normal temperatures active processes are added: Na and water are pumped out by the contractile vacuole system; Cl is accumulated, along with the colloid components of the cytoplasm, only during feeding and growth, which depend upon membrane uptake and intracellular membrane transformations. There is no evidence for active transport of any ion species directly across the plasmalemma
5862502
Sodium, potassium, and chloride concentrations were determined in the sheath cells and axoplasm of the nerve fiber of the squid Sepioteuthis sepioidea. The sheaths were obtained by slitting the nerve fiber, the extracellular electrolytes were washed out in isotonic sucrose solution, and the concentrations in the cells were determined after different soaking times in the sucrose solution. Values for the Schwann cell were calculated by extrapolation to zero time from the plots of the logarithms of the concentrations in the cells as a function of soaking time in sucrose solution. The Schwann cells made up 84 per cent of the sheath's total cellular volume. The Schwann cell concentrations in millimols per liter, are: 312 (404-241) for sodium, 220 (308-157) for potassium, and 167 (208-138) for chloride. The concentrations in the axoplasm (mean +/- SE), in millimols per liter are: 52 +/- 10 for sodium, 335 +/- 25 for potassium, and 135 +/- 14 for chloride. The possibility that some fraction of the Schwann cell electrolytes, especially of sodium, is bound, cannot be discarded
5862503
Each papilla in an enlarged photograph of the tip of the tongue was identified electrically as belonging to one of the four basic taste sensations. The temperature coefficient of the threshold for electrical stimulation was observed for single papillae. The results seem to divide the four basic taste sensations into two different groups: sour-salty and sweet-bitter. This is the same division that has been reported with other methods
5862505
Squid axons were exposed to solutions of C(14)-labeled compounds. After 60 minutes the axoplasm was extruded and assayed for radioactivity. The following compounds penetrated to about 3 per cent of what would have been expected had there been no barrier to free diffusion and the subsequent attainment of equivalent distribution: mannitol, sucrose, glutamate, glutamine, aspartate, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethylamine, lambda-aminobutyrate, serotonin, and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate. All these compounds are water-soluble; in addition, some are ionized over the entire pH range. Partially ionized indoleacetate, acetylsalicylate, and 5,5-diphenylhydantoin penetrated about 40 per cent and unionized, water-insoluble cortisol and dieldrin, 100 per cent. A striking exception to this grouping was glucose, which penetrated about 20 per cent. Studies with specifically labeled glucose indicate participation of the pentose phosphate pathway as a metabolic route in axonal membrane and associated cell wall material, and partial or complete absence of the oxidative system in the axoplasm. Except for glucose, penetration of the substances studied appears to depend largely on the extent of the non-polar, lipophilic character of the compound. Penetration can be markedly increased by pretreatment of the axons with cottonmouth moccasin venom
5862504
Changes in the volume of fiber water in hypotonic and hypertonic Ringer's solution were determined for the sartorius, stomach, and cardiac muscle of the frog using two methods. Loss of water in hypertonic solutions was nearly the same in all muscles, but swelling in hypotonic solutions was greatest in the sartorius, smallest in the heart. For the sartorius the deviation from the properties of an osmometer can be accounted for by a loss of electrolyte and by assuming that a small part of the fiber water is bound, but this appears insufficient to explain the behavior of stomach and cardiac muscle in hypotonic solutions. In very dilute solutions of CaCl(2) and MgCl(2) a large difference in concentration of electrolytes is maintained between the fibers and the medium. Under these conditions divalent cations, accumulating in the fibers, produce a change in physical properties which indicates increased internal cross-linking. It is suggested, therefore, that swelling is limited as in a gel and that a considerable hydrostatic pressure may develop within the fibers
5862506
In this study the model of Shemin and Rittenberg for estimating the life span of red blood cells was extended so that non-steady-state conditions, exemplified by growth or changing physiological states, might be considered. The parameters were estimated by use of the modified Gauss-Newton method. The biological data that were used came from growing sheep in different physiological states with regard to copper. The model was extended to include changes in total blood hemin and changes in blood hemin synthesis that may occur with time. In the present study a linear function was taken as a first approximation. The model appeared to be a sufficiently good approximation in the study reported herein. It was found, however, that the parameters associated with changes in hemin should be estimated from ancillary measurements such as blood volume, Hb, body weight, etc., in order to obtain a good fit or definition of the model
5862507
Glass micropipette electrodes have been employed to study the transsurface potential difference of Neurospora crassa. For mature hyphae grown in agar cultures, the internal potential is large and negative, often exceeding -200 mv. The potential is sensitive to the concentrations of extracellular potassium, sodium, hydrogen, and calcium ions, but does not vary in a manner which is readily explained by ionic diffusion potentials. With extracellular solutions containing only potassium chloride (or sulfate) and sucrose, the internal potential shifts toward zero (becomes less negative) at 45 mv per tenfold increase of potassium, over the range 0.1 to 10 mM. A similar result has been found with sodium, though the slope is only 33 mv/log unit. Calcium (1 mM) diminishes the influence of potassium and sodium by 60 to 70 per cent. As potassium or sodium is raised above 20 mM, the slope of the internal potential increases sharply to 85 to 90 mv/log unit, both in the presence and absence of calcium. With increasing hydrogen ion concentration, too, the internal potential shifts toward zero; in this case the slope is about 12 mv/pH unit at pH 9 and rises smoothly to 33 mv/pH unit at pH 3. All these phenomena are probably properties of the plasma membrane. The polysaccharide cell wall contains few fixed negative charges, has a low transverse resistance, and supports very little potential difference when separated from the plasma membrane
5862508
The internal potential of Neurospora appears to have two components, one (a) which is reduced by anoxia or abolished by respiratory inhibitors such as azide and 2,4-dinitrophenol, and (b) a fraction that remains in the presence of respiratory inhibitors and is sensitive to the external potassium concentration. Under standard conditions 1 mM azide or dinitrophenol diminishes internal potentials from near -200 mv to about -30 mv within 1 minute and at a maximal rate of 20 mv/second. The internal potential usually recovers within 10 minutes after the inhibitor has been removed. The effect of carbon monoxide on the internal potential is similar to that of azide or dinitrophenol, but can be reversed by visible light, specifically of the wavelengths (430 mmicro and 590 mmicro) known to decompose cytochrome-CO complexes in yeast. Respiration and internal potentials vary proportionally with azide concentration, but dinitrophenol at low (3 x 10(-6)M) concentrations enhances oxygen consumption without affecting the internal potential. In the presence of 0.1 mM calcium, the fraction of the internal potential which persists during respiratory inhibition increases (becomes more negative) about 30 mv for each tenfold decrease of external potassium over the range 10 to 0.1 mM. The surface resistivity of Neurospora, normally about 5000 ohm.cm(2), is unchanged by respiratory inhibitors during the period of rapid potential shift
5863434
It is shown by thermodynamic arguments and by semiquantitative considerations that the contribution of thermal migration to biological transport is likely to be small
5863435
The study of the fluorescence of chlorophyll a offers a useful approach toward better understanding of the primary act of photosynthesis. This paper describes new measurements of the decay of chlorophyll a fluorescence in vivo, made with a considerably improved oscilloscopic-display technique. The main result is the identification of two decay periods both of the order of a few nanoseconds. Possible interpretations of this phenomenon are discussed
5863436
A formula is derived which extends the solid angle potential formulation for an active cell in a volume conductor to the case of unequal internal and external conductivities
5863437
A theoretical analysis of the voltage-current relationship is carried out in a membrane consisting of two fixed charge regions, of opposite sign, in contact. This is achieved by applying the diffusion equations to this system in conjunction with the Poisson-Boltzmann equation. The latter has been successfully applied by Mauro to determine the profiles of the electrostatic potential in his treatment of the capacitative property of such a system. It is shown that the system displays the property of rectification and is very similar in many respects to a solid state P-N junction diode. It is also shown that for the case of reverse bias, an electrical breakdown phenomena can occur. This is referred to as the "punch-through" effect. "Punch-through" was observed in experiments on the electrical characteristics of the membranes of Chara australis and Nitella sp. The experimental results are discussed in relation to the theoretical analysis
5865927
Evidence is presented for the existence of arborizing cytoplasmic processes extending from the surface of the cerebral cortex of human brain into the surrounding fluid medium. These originate from subpial fibrous astrocytes and contain the usual cytoplasmic organelles of those cells. They are bordered by basement membrane. Their occurrence is localized and variable over the cortical surface. They are more prevalent in pathological human material than in "normal" human brain and somewhat more prevalent in the latter than in normal rat cortex. Some additional information is presented regarding the relationship of leptomeninges to the cortical surface. The pia mater does not invariably adhere inseparably to the subjacent layer of fibrous astrocytes as generally assumed at present, nor does it always form a continuous layer over the surface of the brain in the material under study. Both collagen and cytoplasmic extensions of astrocytes intervene between these layers. These findings imply that glial elements of the cortex have direct access to the cerebrospinal fluid
5865928
The effects of whole body x-irradiation on the fine structure of sympathetic neurons were studied in 15 unanesthetized adult frogs (Rana pipiens), as seen at intervals ranging from 1 hour to 2 weeks after single exposures to 1000 r and 2000 r. Using standard procedures, the lumbar sympathetic ganglia of experimental and 20 control animals were prepared for electron microscope examination. Radiation produced conspicuous but irregular and variable deterioration, swelling, and clearing of neuronal lysosomes. These changes may have been due to an increased permeability of lysosomal membranes, causing the entry of fluid into lysosomes and their swelling and deterioration, but a pronounced escape of lysosomal enzymes into the cytoplasm was questionable. Less frequent were the dilatation and the parallel layering or complete fusion and tight packing of the rough-edged endoplasmic reticulum. The number of vacuoles, probably derived from Golgi cisternae, was somewhat increased. These vacuoles were conjectured to serve the "sequestration" of damaged cytoplasmic areas. Abnormal amounts of presumptive glycogen granules occupied some axons of myelinated and unmyelinated fibers, especially of presynaptic nerve fibers. This was assumed to be due to a decreased breakdown of glycogen and probably caused the interruption of the transmission of nerve impulses in presynaptic fibers. The maximal incidence of these alterations seemingly occurred 8 days after exposure to 1000 r, and 1 hour after x-irradiation with 2000 r. Signs of recovery appeared 2 weeks after exposure to 2000 r
5865930
An electron microscopic examination of Porphyridium cruentum revealed the presence of mitochondria which had been reported absent in this aerobic organism. The chloroplast in this red alga was found to contain small granules (about 320 A) regularly arranged along the parallel chloroplast lamellae. The chloroplast granules differ in size and staining intensity from the ribosomes located in the cytoplasm. Two tubular elements are described. One type (450 to 550 A) is associated with the Golgi bodies. Another type (350 A), in the cell periphery, is believed to connect the endoplasmic reticulum and the cell membrane. Daughter nuclei were found to be positioned at opposite ends of the cell prior to commencement of cell division. Cytokinesis is accomplished by an annular median constriction causing the gradual separation of the chloroplast, pyrenoid, and other cell organelles, resulting in two equal daughter cells. No appreciable differences were observed between cells grown in high light (400 ft-c) and low light (40 ft-c). Structural differences between young and old cells were compared
5865929
According to theory, the action of acetylcholine (ACh) and ACh-esterase is essential for the permeability changes of excitable membranes during activity. It is, therefore, pertinent to know the activity of ACh-esterase per unit axonal surface area instead of per gram nerve, as it has been measured in the past. Such information has now been obtained with the newly developed microgasometric technique using a magnetic diver. (1) The cholinesterase (Ch-esterase) activity per mm(2) surface of sensory axons of the walking leg of lobster is 1.2 x 10(-3) microM/hr. (sigma = +/- 0.3 x 10(-3); SE = 0.17 x 10(-3)); the corresponding value for the motor axons isslightly higher: 1.93 x 10(-3) microM/hr. (sigma = +/- 0.41 x 10(-3); SE = +/- 0.14 x 10(-3)). Referred to gram nerve, the Ch-esterase activity of the sensory axons is much higher than that of the motor axons: 741 microM/hr. (sigma = +/- 73.5; SE = +/- 32.6) versus 111.6 microM/hr. (sigma = +/- 28.3; SE = +/- 10). (2) The enzyme activity in the small fibers of the stellar nerve of squid is 3.2 x 10(-4) microM/mm(2)/hr. (sigma = +/- 0.96 x 10(-4); SE = +/- 0.4 x 10(-4)). (3) The Ch-esterase activity per mm(2) surface of squid giant axon is 9.5 x 10(-5) microM/hr. (sigma = +/- 1.55 x 10(-5); SE = +/- 0.38 x 10(-5)). The value was obtained with small pieces of carefully cleaned axons after removal of the axoplasm and exposure to sonic disintegration. Without the latter treatment the figurewas 3.85 x 10(-5) microM/mm(2)/hr. (sigma = +/- 3.24 x 10(-5); SE = +/- 0.93 x 10(-5)). The experiments indicate the existence of permeability barriers in the cell wall surrounding part of the enzyme, since the substrate cannot reach all the enzyme even when small fragments of the cell wall are used without disintegration. (4) On the basis of the data obtained, some tentative approximations are made of the ratio of ACh released to Na ions entering the squid giant axon per cm(2) per impulse
5865931
By varying the light intensity and temperature during growth it is possible to obtain cultures of Rhodospirillum molischianum in which the specific bacteriochlorophyll contents differ by as much as fivefold. We used such cultures to compare the changes in the electron microscopic appearance of the cells with the changes in the amount and bacteriochlorophyll content of chromatophore material isolated from cell extracts. The cells contained a variable number of internal membranes which are invaginations of the cell membrane. The shape, size, number, and arrangement of the infoldings varied as the specific bacteriochlorophyll content of the cells changed. In cells with little bacteriochlorophyll, the invaginations were mostly tubular. In cells with larger amounts of bacteriochlorophyll, the invaginations were disc-shaped and the discs were appressed together in stacks of 2 to 10 discs each. Variations in the number of discs per stack could be accounted for by a simple statistical model. The average area per disc increased with increasing bacteriochlorophyll content. Quantitative estimations of the relative volumes occupied by membranes in cells with four different bacteriochlorophyll contents showed that the amount of internal membrane alone had no direct relationship with the bacteriochlorophyll content of the cells; however, the total amount of membrane (cell membrane plus internal membrane) was directly proportional to the bacteriochlorophyll content. The specific bacteriochlorophyll content of isolated chromatophore material was proportional to the bacteriochlorophyll content of whole cells; the total amount of chromatophore material was independent of the bacteriochlorophyll content of whole cells. Several possible explanations of this paradoxical discrepancy between the electron microscope observations and the analytical results are discussed
5865932
Two morphologically distinctive slow growing strains of Neurospora crassa have been isolated and studied. These, abn-1 and abn-2, differ from wild type in that their growth rates are greatly reduced and often irregular, aerial hyphae are absent, conidia are extremely rare, and no protoperithecia are formed. Growth was not improved by addition of any nutrients tested, oxygen consumption was similar to that of wild type, and cytochrome c appeared abnormally high, and b low or absent. Both abn strains gave rise only to normal progeny in crosses with normal strains. The abn characteristics appear in heterocaryons, and have been transmitted to other genetic strains by means of heterocaryosis followed by plating of conidia. Conidia formed by such heterocaryons typically showed low viability, and gave rise to cultures with great variability in growth rate, morphology, and survival. Even apparently normal derived cultures often later became abnormal or died. It is concluded that the abnormal characteristics are determined primarily by cytoplasmic factors. This conclusion was strengthened by the transmission of the typical characteristics to normal strains by microinjection of cytoplasm from abn cultures, even without demonstrable transfer of nuclei. This constitutes the first time microinjection techniques have been successfully applied to the analysis of a cytoplasmic character in Neurospora
5865933
Nuclear fractions isolated from mutants of Neurospora produced no effect when microinjected into mutants with complementary biochemical requirements. DNA isolated from the nuclear fractions similarly injected also had no effect. Mitochondrial fractions isolated from an abnormal inositolless strain (abn-1) produced drastic changes in the rate of growth, morphology, reproductive characteristics, and cytochrome spectra of normal inositolless strains when single hyphal compartments were microinjected and isolated, whereas the mitochondrial fractions of the wild type produced no effect. These results provide evidence for the transmission of biochemical and biological characters when mitochondria are transferred to new nucleocytoplasmic environments
5865934
The distribution of esterase activity in the last abdominal ganglion, the connectives and the cereal nerves of the cockroach Periplaneta americana has been investigated cytochemically. Activity of an unspecific eserine-insensitive esterase (or esterases) has been found in glial elements in these regions of the nerve cord. In addition, sites of cholinesterase (eserine-sensitive) activity have been found in association with (a) the glial sheaths of the axons in the cereal nerves and connectives, (b) the glial folds encapsulating the neuron perikarya in the ganglion, and (c) in localized areas along the membranes of axon branches within the neuropile, often flanked by focal clusters of synaptic vesicles. These results are discussed with particular reference to the previously reported insensitivity of the insect nerve cord to applied acetylcholine, and to the probable existence of a cholinergic synaptic mechanism in the central nervous system of this insect
5865935
The structure of the zona glomerulosa of the rat adrenal gland stimulated by sodium restriction has been studied by light and electron microscopy. The major changes observed during the course of the experiment in stimulated glands involve cytoplasmic droplets, mitochondria, and the endoplasmic reticulum. There is a progressive decrease in the number of cytoplasmic droplets of low electron opacity. Numerous, greatly elongated mitochondria containing parallel arrays of tubules are noted. These tubules extend from within the mitochondria through gaps in the mitochondrial-limiting membranes into the cytoplasm. In addition, amorphous intramitochondrial deposits, possibly aldosterone precursors, are seen. Increased amounts of smooth-surfaced endoplasmic reticulum, often showing complex arrangements, are another feature of the stimulated zona glomerulosa. Other alterations include the presence of large numbers of dense bodies as well as cytoplasmic droplets of high electron opacity. These observations are discussed in relation to the biosynthesis of aldosterone
5865936
The structural interrelationships among several membrane systems in the cells of brown algae have been examined by electron microscopy. In the brown algae the chloroplasts are surrounded by two envelopes, the outer of which in some cases is continuous with the nuclear envelope. The pyrenoid, when present, protrudes from the chloroplast, is also surrounded by the two chloroplast envelopes, and, in addition, is capped by a third dilated envelope or "pyrenoid sac." The regular apposition of the membranes around the pyrenoid contrasts with their looser appearance over the remainder of the chloroplast. The Golgi apparatus is closely associated with the nuclear envelope in all brown algae examined, but in the Fucales this association may extend to portions of the cytoplasmic endoplasmic reticulum as well. Evidence is presented for the derivation of vesicles, characteristic of those found in the formative region of the Golgi apparatus, from portions of the underlying nuclear envelope. The possibility that a structural channeling system for carbohydrate reserves and secretory precursors may be present in brown algae is considered. Other features of the brown algal cell, such as crystal-containing bodies, the variety of darkly staining vacuoles, centrioles, and mitochondria, are examined briefly, and compared with similar structures in other plant cells
5865937
Somatic muscle cells of Ascaris lumbricoides consist of three differently specialized components referred to as the fiber, which contains the contractile apparatus (described previously), the belly, and the arm. The belly is shown to be a sac of glycogen, which is depleted during starvation of the animal. The arm extends to a nerve cord where it establishes a myoneural junction characterized by giant mitochondria and clusters of vesicles in the nerve fibers and by a 500 A neuromuscular gap. The arms, which have been shown to be "electrically interconnected" in the vicinity of the nerve cord, form "tight junctions" with one another in just this region. At high magnification, these junctions can be resolved into several types. In some there is fusion of the outer leaflets of the membranes with formation of an intermediate line. Others resemble septate desmosomes in that a residual extracellular space approximately 20 A in width remains between the membranes, but the outer leaflets are interconnected across the gap. It is suggested that the term "tight junction" encompasses a variety of structures distinguishable only at high magnification and that the different variations are not necessarily equivalent functionally
5865938
A light-dependent mechanism that results in a slow, high-amplitude swelling of spinach chloroplasts in vitro has been discovered. The swelling is readily observed by optical and gravimetric methods, and by the use of an electronic particle counter; all show a 100 per cent increase of chloroplast volume in the light with an approximately 10-minute half-time. The existence of an osmotic mechanism for chloroplast swelling in the dark is confirmed. The volume of illuminated chloroplasts versus NaCl concentration represents the addition of osmotic and light effects. The action of light is enhanced by electron flow cofactors, such as phenazine methosulfate (PMS). However, neither conditions for ATP hydrolysis or synthesis nor NH(4)Cl influence the time course and extent of swelling. Hence, high-amplitude chloroplast swelling is light- (or electron flow), but not energy-dependent. A remarkable inhibitory effect of inorganic phosphate on chloroplast swelling is observed in the light, but not in the dark. Another action of light on chloroplasts is known to result in a shrinkage of chloroplasts which is rapid, reversible, energy-dependent, and requires phosphate. Thus phosphate determines the action of light on chloroplast volume. Since shrinkage is reversible, but swelling is not, it may be that they reflect physiological and deteriorative processes, respectively. Chloroplasts and mitochondria appear to control their volume by similar mechanisms
5865940
The phenomenon of contraction of a striated muscle down to below 50 per cent rest length has been examined for the scutal depressor of the barnacle Balanus nubilus by a combination of phase contrast and electron microscopy. It was found that neurally evoked contraction down to 60 per cent rest length results from the shortening of the I band. At the same time the Z disc changes in structure by an active process which results in spaces opening up within it. Thick filaments can now pass through these spaces from adjacent sarcomeres, interdigitating across the discs. Interdigitation permits repetitive contraction in the living muscle to below 30 per cent rest length. In non-neurally evoked contractions most thick filaments do not find spaces in the Z disc and bend back, giving rise to contraction band artifacts. Expansion of the Z disc can be produced in glycerinated material by the addition of solutions containing a high concentration of ATP
5866030
The effects of antibiotics, sulfonamides, and other antimicrobial agents on vegetative cultures of five strains of milky disease bacteria were compared with those on Bacillus subtilis Cohn emend. Prazmowski, Staphylococcus aureus Rosenbach, Sarcina lutea Schroeter, Escherichia coli (Migula) Castellani and Chalmers, Saccharomyces pastorianus Hansen, and Mucor ramannianus Moel. Similar numbers of viable cells of each organism were exposed to the test materials by use of an antibiotic-sensitivity disc method adapted from techniques recommended by the Food and Drug Administration in the Federal Register. The results suggest that vancomycin or ristocetin, as well as a few other materials, might be useful in controlling contamination either during culture of the fastidious milky disease bacteria or in large populations of vegetative cells undergoing treatment to induce sporulation. Inhibitory concentrations of vancomycin and ristocetin in shaken-tube tests were much lower than expected in comparison with results of sensitivity-disc tests on the milky disease bacteria. Sublethal concentrations of the two antibiotics elicited some morphological change in the bacteria
5866031
A filtration method has been developed which can be used to detect and enumerate phage in low concentrations directly from solution without the need for prior concentration. In this method, a known volume of the phage solution is mixed with a suitable host solution. Samples are filtered through membrane filters; the filter is removed and incubated, and after 24 hr the resultant plaques are counted and the titer is calculated. Escherichia coli B and the coliphage T2 were used in these studies. Host cultures less than 12 hr old produced the best results. Approximately 10(10) host organisms must be present in the sample taken for filtration. To avoid phage reproduction, all steps prior to filtration must be done in less than 45 min. The method was compared with the soft-agar technique and was shown to be less precise but able to measure phage in lower concentrations
5866032
An ecological study of Micrococcus radiodurans indicated that microorganisms possessing the same morphological and radiation-resistance characteristics as that organism could be isolated from ground beef and from pork sausage. Further studies showed that such organisms also could be isolated from beef hides and from water from a creek adjacent to the packing plant from which the meat samples were obtained. Similar microorganisms were not isolated, however, from a limited number of samples of soil, hay, and fecal material. The use of high levels of gamma-radiation in the initial isolation procedures proved to be advantageous in inactivating most of the other microflora and facilitating the isolation of M. radiodurans. Control experiments indicated that M. radiodurans did not compete well with the microflora present in ground meat, soil, and beef hides. Preincubation before irradiation of meat and soil samples or enrichment culture techniques did not enhance the isolation of M. radiodurans. The presence of M. radiodurans in creek water suggested one possible source of this organism
5866033
Equations relating productivity, growth rate, cell concentration, and light absorption lead to the prediction that, when incident light is below saturating intensity, maximal productivity will occur at half the maximal growth rate. The freshwater alga Chlorella pyrenoidosa TX71105 and the marine alga Dunaliella tertiolecta were grown in a small continuous culture apparatus with turbidostatic control. With both cultures, the cell concentration showed a linear decrease with dilution rate. Productivity was maximal at about one-half the maximal dilution rate. Average mass per cell increased near the maximal dilution rate, causing some asymmetry in the productivity versus dilution rate curve. The chlorophyll content per unit mass decreased in this region, but the chlorophyll content per cell remained constant. Best production rate in a light-limited algal culture was obtained when the growth rate at very low cell concentration was determined in the apparatus and the dilution rate was set at one-half that value
5866034
Visual effects of Mycobacterium ranae on a 135-penetration asphalt (asphalt 1A) are described, which show the texture and rheological characteristics of the asphalt to be modified by microbial action. A bentonite-asphalt emulsion system for asphalts 1A, 3A, and 6A was used to subject these materials to the degradative activity of M. ranae and Nocardia coeliaca for 4 months at 30 C. N. coeliaca caused 1.5-, 3.9-, and 6.8-fold increases in relative viscosity of asphalts 1A, 3A, and 6A, respectively. A similar susceptibility pattern for M. ranae was obtained on the same asphalts, but apparently this organism exerted even a greater effect on asphalt 6A since the viscosity of this residue was too hard to be determined satisfactorily. Comparison of these data with analyses of the three asphalts indicates that the organisms probably attack the resin components of the asphalts
5866035
The formation of naringinase, a glycolytic enzyme produced by Aspergillus niger, is repressed by glucose. Production of the enzyme is decreased below pH 4.0 and is stimulated by the presence of substrate. Fermentation conditions are described which cause the formation of the enzyme in approximately a fivefold greater concentration than that previously described
5866036
Acetone cells of Pullularia sp. were incubated with maltose, and the saccharides produced were fractionated on a charcoal column. The fractions were subjected to paper-chromatographic analysis and enzymatic assay. By these methods, the saccharides have been shown to include glucose, maltose, maltotriose, panose, and the lower members of glucose polymers containing the 1,4- and 1,6-alpha-glucosidic linkages, but neither isomaltose nor dextrantriose. The use of glucose oxidase results in the formation of the higher members of glucose polymer
5866037
A method for the quantitative identification of organic compounds in seawater has been developed. When auxotrophic mutants of Serratia marinorubra were incubated at 21 to 24 C for 72 hr with constant agitation, standard bioassay reference curves were obtained. Sodium glycerophosphate (400 mg per liter), ammonium dibasic citrate (5 g per liter), and glycerol (25 ml per liter) supplied the needed nutrients for maximal growth with a limited concentration of the required metabolite. Data are presented for the microbiological assay for biotin in waters of the Gulf of Mexico and adjacent bays. The range of sensitivity for the biotin mutant A101V is 5 to 12 mmug per liter in seawater, with a growth response from 2 to 16 mmug per liter of seawater. The possible ecological and chemical significance of biotin occurrence in spring-summer off-shore water is discussed
5866038
Liquid impingers, filter papers, and fritted bubblers were partial viable collectors of radioactive submicron T1 bacteriophage aerosols at 30, 55, and 85% relative humidity. Sampler differences for viable collection were due to incomplete physical collection (slippage) and killing of phage by the samplers. Dynamic aerosols of a mass median diameter of 0.2 mu were produced with a Dautrebande generator from concentrated aqueous purified phage suspensions containing extracellular soluble radioactive phosphate as a physical tracer. There was considerable destruction of phage by the Dautrebande generator; phage titers of the Dautrebande suspension decreased exponentially, but there was a progressive (linear) increase in tracer titers. Liquid impingers recovered the most viable phage but allowed considerable (30 to 48%) slippage, which varies inversely with the aerosol relative humidity. Filter papers were virtually complete physical collectors of submicron particles but were the most destructive. Fritted bubbler slippage was more than 80%. With all samplers, phage kill was highest at 85% relative humidity and lowest at 55% relative humidity. An electrostatic precipitator was used to collect aerosol samples for particle sizing with an electron microscope. The particle size was slightly larger at 85% relative humidity than at 30 or 55% relative humidity
5866041
We determined the inhibitory end point of a series of bis-methanethiolsulfonates, CH(3)SO(2)S(CH(2))(n)SSO(2)CH(3) (n = 2 to 6), and correlated the structures with antimicrobial activity. Eleven microorganisms were used in the evaluation, and the maximal activity occurred when the methylene chain length was five or six. The effect of CH(3)SO(2)S(CH(2))(5)SSO(2)CH(3) (PMTS) on respiration of Aerobacter aerogenes and Staphylococcus aureus was studied at various stages of their growth cycles. The effect on viability was correlated with that of respiration in the case of A. aerogenes. Respiratory inhibition caused by PMTS varied with the growth phase of both organisms, being most pronounced when the cells tested were taken during the period of transition from the log to stationary phase. The lethal effect on A. aerogenes was also greatest at this time. During the period of increased sensitivity, the antimicrobial activity of PMTS appears to be closely related to cell respiration. The delayed rate of kill otherwise observed may reflect an impairment of protein metabolism through reaction with sensitive SH groups
5866039
Geosmin, an earthy-smelling substance, has been isolated from several actinomycetes. Production of 1 mg per liter of whole broth was obtained from Streptomyces griseus LP-16. After preliminary separations, pure geosmin was isolated in milligram amounts by gas chromatography. Geosmin is a neutral oil, with an approximate boiling point of 270 C, which contains carbon and hydrogen, but no nitrogen. It undergoes a reaction with acid to give odorless argosmin, a neutral oil, with an approximate boiling point of 230 C, which contains only carbon and hydrogen. Specific rotation and ultraviolet- and infrared-absorbtion spectra were determined for both
5866042
The effects of a series of sodium alkyl sulfates (C(4) to C(16)) on flagellation, motility, swarming, and growth of Proteus were examined. The concentrations of the various sodium alkyl sulfates completely inhibiting the swarming phenomenon (on solid medium) and motility (in liquid medium) were in the same order of magnitude. The inhibiting effect of the detergents examined increased from sodium hexyl sulfate (inhibitory concentration, 20 to 30 mmoles per liter) to sodium tetradecyl sulfate (inhibitory concentration, 0.1 to 0.5 mmoles per liter). Flagella were produced neither in liquid nor on solid medium at these concentrations as could be observed by electron microscopy. At concentrations where motility was not impaired, intact flagellation could be observed. At a concentration of 0.1 mmole per liter, sodium tetradecyl sulfate completely inhibited the motility of Proteus in the liquid medium employed without impairing growth
5866040
Diquat (2 x 10(-4)m) inhibited both aerobic and anaerobic growth of Rhodospirillum rubrum. With photosynthetic cultures, diquat affected the synthesis of bacteriochlorophyll more readily than cell mass (turbidity). Diquat retarded the synthesis of bacteriochlorophyll and some protein more readily than that of other cellular constituents such as ribonucleic acid, deoxyribonucleic acid, and cell mass. With cells deficient in phosphate, diquat inhibited the uptake-conversion of inorganic phosphate completely only when 3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,1'-dimethyl urea and ascorbate were also present
5866043
The conditions required for production of levo 2,3-butylene glycol by Bacillus polymyxa from citrus molasses were studied. Starter cultures required acclimatization to the substrate prior to inoculation of the fermentation medium. Maximal production of butylene glycol with minimal residual sugar was obtained with a medium consisting of molasses, diluted to 20 degrees Brix, and 0.4% urea. Optimal environmental conditions included aeration at 0.11 volumes of air per volume of medium per minute, maintenance of pH at 6.0 to 6.2, a fermentation temperature of 30 C, and a stirring rate of 420 rev/min. The concentration of butylene glycol obtained in the fermentation beer ranged from 2.3 to 4.4%. The optical rotation of the glycol ranged from [alpha](D) (23 degrees ) = -1.01 degrees to -10.45 degrees . The variation in rotation was probably due to the presence of contaminating substances in the distillate
5866044
A strain of Fusarium moniliforme (IH4), isolated from soil, showed outstanding enzymatic abilities to hydroxylate a number of estrogens. Estrone and estradiol were transformed into the 15alpha-hydroxy derivatives, and estradiol 3-methyl ether was transformed into the corresponding 6beta-hydroxy derivative. Delta(6)-Estrone was not hydroxylated. The accumulation of 15alpha-hydroxyestrone was influenced by the nutritional conditions of the fungus. Maximal yield was obtained when the organism grew in Czapek solution supplemented with yeast extract, although good conversion was also found in a peptone-corn molasses medium. Substitution of NO(3)-N in Czapek medium with NH(4)-N, lactalbumin hydrolysate, Casitone, or Casamino Acids resulted in limited hydroxylation of estrone. A remarkable strain specificity was demonstrated in this conversion. Of 13 strains of F. moniliforme and Gibberella fujikuroi under investigation, only 2 strains (IH4 and ATCC 9851) accumulated substantial amounts of the 15alpha-hydroxylated product. However, marked quantitative variations were observed which are attributable to a different ability of the organisms to degrade the steroid nucleus. Biochemical instabilities were also found through the appearance of spontaneous variants lacking steroid-hydroxylating activity. Replacement culture studies revealed that 15alpha-hydroxylation of estrone was dependent on the supply of external phosphate; exogenous nitrogen or energy sources were not required. Most of the enzymatic activity was confined to the mycelia. Microconidia showed a very limited hydroxylating activity, even in the presence of supplements or energy sources
5866045
A total of 202 cultures of yeasts were isolated and characterized from king crab and Dungeness crab meat. A yeastlike organism, resembling Aureobasidium pullulans, and 15 different species distributed among the genera Rhodotorula, Cryptococcus, Torulopsis, Candida, and Trichosporon were represented. Nine of the species grew at 5 C or lower. Although two of the species grew at 37 C, none of the isolates had the characteristics of pathogenic species. Members of the Cryptococcus and Candida failed to grow at 37 C. Furthermore, species of the former genus were not pathogenic to mice. The pigmentation of the Rhodotorula cultures decreased in intensity as the incubation temperature was decreased. Biochemical activities of the different species were studied by use of triglycerides, lecithin, and proteins (casein, gelatin, and crab-meat protein) as substrates. Eight of the species could attack triglycerides; eight, lecithin; five, gelatin; one, casein; and one, crab protein. An organism, tentatively identified as Trichosporon sp., was very active in attacking each of the substrates tested and grew well at 0.5 C
5866046
Twenty-two species of bacteria were isolated from Linum usitatissimum stored for retting. Achromobacter parvulus, Clostridium beijerinckii, C. saprogenes, C. saccharoacetoperbutylicum, C. perenne, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa and its achromogenic variety are retting agents. The last species mentioned performs the retting in only 72 hr. This is the first time A. parvulus has been shown to be a retting agent
5866654
The total lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in whole homogenates of various human tissues reacts more similarly toward pyruvate and lactate at 25 degrees C than expected from the marked differences in substrate inhibition at this temperature between isolated, purified LDH-1, and LDH-5. At 37 degrees C, LDH-5 closely resembles LDH-1 in extent of inhibition by substrate. These results are incompatible with the theory that differences in degree of isozyme inhibition by substrate have resulted in predominance of LDH-5 in aerobic tissues and predominance of LDH-1 in aerobic tissues
5866655
Quantum yields for pyridoxal, pyridoxamine, and pyridoxamine-5-phosphate at 25 degrees C in neutral aqueous solution were 0.048, 0.11, and 0.14, respectively. The fluorescence efficiencies were highly temperaturedependent, and the compounds were extremely sensitive to light. There were marked discrepancies between the values obtained in this study for quantum yield and fluorescence polarization of pyridoxamine-5-phosphate and the values recently reported by others
5866656
Disulfide bonds can be cleaved at an alkaline pH by treating a protein with excess of a reagent disulfide in the presence of catalytic amounts of thiol. The cleavage products are stable and can be isolated; they contain the mixed disulfide between the reagent and the exposed thiol groups of the protein. The extent of cleavage is readily controlled by the pH of the reaction, temperature, and the addition of urea. Disulfide bonds cleaved by the reaction can be re-formed by exposing the mixed disulfide of the protein to catalytic amounts of thiol. Specific side chains can be added on to the thiol groups in native proteins by treatment with a reagent disulfide alone
5866657
Electron micrographbs of high resolution have been obtained from fraction I protein of Chinese cabbage leaves. The protein, which has ribulose-1,5-diphosphate carboxylase activitY, appear to be a cube swth edge of about 120 angstroms. Substrtucture canl be seen in individual particles, conlsistent with a model having 24 subunits, the number prescribed by the available physical and chlemical data
5866658
6-Phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (PGD) subunits have been dissociated and reassociated in vitro. The intermediate PGD of the heterozygous phenotype is reproduced by reassociation in vitro of subunits derived from the two types of PGD from homozygous flies. This result has a bearingon gene action in the diploid organism and on the mechanism of dosage compensation in Drosophila melanogaster
5866659
Nitrogen mustard inactivates bacteriophage containing single-stranded DNA and RNA as well as double-stranded DNA. Inactivation may occur by intrastrand cross-linkage in DNA or RNA as well as by interstrand crosslinkage between complementary strands of DNA
5866660
The addition of cortisol acetate and deoxycorticosterone acetate to cultured heart cells from rats, 4 to 6 days old, stimulated and prolonged beating. Protein synthesis was slowed down in the presence of steroids. Addition of steroids to cells that had stopped beating caused the reestablishiment of the beat
5866661
Myelin was isolated from cerebral white matter from a patient who had died of metachromatic leukodystrophy, and its lipid composition was analyzed. Although the lipid content was nearly normal, the myelin contained a three- to fourfold excess of cerebroside sulfate and a threefold deficiency of cerebroside compared to normal myelin. The deficiency of cerebroside and the excess of cerebroside sulfate may account for defective myelination in this disease
5866662
Hemoglobin J(Korat), a "fast" hemoglobin with an anomaly in its beta chain different from the anomalies previously reported, was the major hemoglobin component in the blood of nine subjects among 1923 Thais from northeastern Thailand. After hemoglobin E, J(Korat) is the second most frequent of the anomalous hemoglobins among Thais
5866663
A fungus of Pythium species survives high and low temperatures longer when a suitable sterol is added to the growth medium
5866664
Infrared spectroscopy and optical rotatory dispersion have been used to test theories of structure of membrane protein. No evidence has been found to support the view that adjacent to the lipid there is a monolayer of protein in the beta-conformation. The extracted protein appears to be a fairly typical globular protein with a low a-helical content
5866665
In five male subjects, and a total of 15 man-nights, oxygen consumption rate (V(02)) was related to stage of sleep, as defined by electroencephalograms. Gross periodic variations which paralleled change in stage of sleep were discernible in analogue metabolic records. Computations revealed significant differences (P &lt;.01) between all stages with V(02) highest in stage I REM (dreaming sleep), least in stages III and IV (deep sleep), and intermediate in stage II (light sleep)
5867645
The effectiveness of vitamin K(5) in controlling the growth of different molds at varying pH levels in a culture medium, in tomato juice, and in several berry purees was studied. The molds studied were Aspergillus, Botrytis, Hormodendrum, Mucor, and Penicillium. The results showed that vitamin K(5) was effective as a fungistatic agent at concentrations ranging from 0.006 to 0.02%
5867644
To establish an advantageous method for the production of l-alanine, a procedure was studied for converting l-aspartic acid to l-alanine by microbial l-aspartic beta-decarboxylase. A number of organisms were screened to test their ability to form and accumulate alanine from aspartic acid. Pseudomonas dacunhae was selected as the most advantageous organism. With this organism, enzyme activity as high as 3,910 muliters of CO(2) per hr per ml of medium could be produced by shaking the culture at 30 C in the medium containing ammonium fumarate, sodium fumarate, corn steep liquor, peptone, and inorganic salts. For the enzymatic conversion of l-aspartic acid to l-alanine, the culture broth was employed as the enzyme source. A large amount of l-aspartic acid (as much as 40% of the broth) was converted stoichiometrically to alanine in 72 hr at 37 C. Furthermore, appropriate addition of a surface-active agent to the reaction mixture was found to be highly effective in shortening the time required for the conversion. Accumulated l-alanine was readily isolated in pure form by ordinary procedures with ion-exchange resins. Yields of isolated l-alanine of over 90% from l-aspartic acid were easily attainable
5867646
The effect of different seawaters on survival and growth of biotin-, isoleucine-, and uracil-requiring mutants of the marine bacterium, Serratia marinorubra, has been investigated. Samples of seawater were collected from coastal waters, the California Current, and central North Pacific waters at depths of 1, 25, 50, 100, 250, and 500 m. The growth or survival of the test bacterium in basal medium prepared in these seawater samples was determined. The control water was synthetic or charcoal-treated natural seawater. In several experiments, the metabolite required by the bacterium was added to the basal medium 24 hr after inoculation, and the growth response was determined. Depending on the source, the seawater samples were both stimulating and inhibitory. Surface waters were more inhibitory than those taken at depth, where, in some cases, bacterial growth occurred. Seawater inhibition was related more to station depth than to the location of the station. The most toxic effects were found against the uracil-requiring mutant; the least, against the isoleucine-requiring mutant. The results of these studies and some laboratory experiments indicate that seawater toxicity is not primarily associated with the physical and biological properties of a particular water mass and that the same factor(s) may be responsible for the rapid death of bacteria in all waters
5867647
The effects of four carbon sources and inorganic phosphate on the production of streptomycin and protease by a strain of Streptomyces griseus were studied. Protease production was increased in fermentations with comparatively rapid consumption of carbohydrate, and streptomycin was produced under conditions of moderately slow consumption. Starch was consumed more rapidly than glucose, and, in fermentations with starch as a carbon source, good yields of protease were associated with poor yields of streptomycin. The effect of the concentration of inorganic phosphate varied with the sugar source; the rate of consumption of glucose or fructose increased with the addition of inorganic phosphate, and the utilization of starch or maltose was not affected
5867648
The use of four stereoisomers of isoleucine by Lactobacillus fermenti strain 36 was studied in detail. All four isoleucine isomers were used for growth in the presence of vitamin B(6) compounds, but only l-isoleucine was active in the absence of these vitamins. Of the vitamin B(6) compounds, pyridoxal and pyridoxamine were equally more effective than pyridoxine for the utilization of these isomers. Lowering the initial pH, decreasing the amounts of leucine and valine, and adapting the organism to d-alloisoleucine medium accelerated the use of isoleucine isomers. Thus, the conditions were established under which respective isomers gave the same growth response, and these findings were applied to the separate microbiological assay of l-isoleucine and total isoleucine isomers
5867649
The effects on enzyme production of inoculum size and age, medium composition, and culture conditions were studied in shake flasks and in a pilot-plant fermentor. Using a medium consisting of glucose, yeast extract, and inorganic salts in deionized water, we found that the addition of Cu(++) was essential for the formation of active enzyme. Cultures grown in the absence of added copper produced an inactive enzyme protein which could be activated by 10(-3) M Cu(++). Thiamine fulfilled all requirements for exogenous vitamins for growth and enzyme production. Glucose concentrations higher than 1% markedly suppressed enzyme formation. The mycelium inactivated the enzyme on prolonged incubation of the culture. Mycelial autolysates and sonic extracts were found to contain a thermostable and slowly dialyzable galactose oxidase-inactivating factor. The experiments suggest that this factor operates as a chelating agent which forms complexes with the copper of the enzyme. Copper ions (10(-3) M) prevented enzyme inactivation and restored activity to samples previously inactivated by this factor
5867650
An ammonium sulfate-precipitated fraction from cell-free extracts of Pseudomonas C12B grown on a medium containing sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) contained alkyl sulfatase increased fourfold in specific activity over the crude. Optimal pH (7.5) and temperature (70 C) for sulfate release were determined with SDS labeled with radioactive sulfur (SDS(35)) as test substrate. Phosphate, arsenate, and certain heavy metal ions inhibited desulfation, whereas Mg(++) and Mn(++) stimulated activity of preparations which had been dialyzed against ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid. Dodecanol was recovered in semiquantitative yield from reaction mixtures containing enzyme and SDS(35). Aryl sulfates, secondary alcohol sulfates, and a phenoxyethyl sulfate failed to serve as substrate for this enzyme
5867651
The proportionality of growth, as indicated by turbidity of cultures of Pseudomonas C12B, to the initial concentration of sodium dodecyl sulfate, dodecanol, or a mixture of C(10)-C(20) secondary alcohol sulfates, each provided as sole carbon source in basal mineral salts medium, was demonstrated. Subsequently, the direct correlation of culture turbidity as a growth indicator and degradation of sodium dodecyl sulfate and the C(10)-C(20) compounds was established. Degradation of these detergents was measured by the rise in surface tension and the decrease in methylene blue values, respectively. Turbidimetry was found to be a poor indicator of degradation of dodecanol in the early hours of culture, however, and did not correlate over a significant range with degradation of substrate. Viable cell counts did parallel dodecanol degradation as measured by gas-liquid chromatography. The use of bacterial growth as a reliable, quantitative, and easily measured parameter indicating biodegradability was suggested for those organic compounds which can be shown to serve as a carbon source for a bacterium
5867652
Evidence is presented in support of the hypothesis that fresh bat guano serves as a means of pathogenic fungi dissemination in caves. A total of 371 guano samples were collected from caves in southeastern New Mexico. Each sample was agitated in sterile saline and sand. The supernatant fluid was treated with an antibiotic and streaked on differential media. Cultures were incubated at 25 and 37 C and examined at intervals over a 4-week period. For animal inoculation, highly concentrated inoculum was injected intraperitoneally into white Swiss mice. Animals were sacrificed 4 weeks later, and portions of their lung, liver, and spleen were cultured on selective media, incubated at 25 C, and examined at intervals over a 4-week period. Microsporum gypseum was isolated at all 10 collecting stations with an incidence of 22.4%, Trichophyton mentagrophytes at 7 stations with an incidence of 5%, T. rubrum at 3 stations with an incidence of 3%, and T. terrestre at 1 station with an incidence of 0.5%. From a total of 60 pools of liver-spleen-lung suspensions, 6 pools yielded positive cultures of Histoplasma capsulatum and 1 pool yielded T. mentagrophytes. No significant difference was found among the different selective media with respect to recovery of dermatophytes. Among the human pathogenic fungi isolated were Candida sp., Cladosporium sp., Coccidioides immitis, Cryptococcus neoformans, H. capsulatum, M. gypseum, T. mentagrophytes, T. rubrum, T. terrestre, and Sporotrichum sp
5867653
Sixty-seven strains belonging to 47 species of Basidiomycetes were examined for their acid-producing abilities in glucose media, in both the presence and absence of CaCO(3), in stationary and shake cultures. Some strains were found to produce large quantities of oxalic acid. The oxalic acid-producing strains could be separated into two groups. Strains of one group (mostly brown-rot fungi) were able to produce oxalic acid, regardless of whether CaCO(3) was present in the medium. Strains of the other group (mostly white-rot fungi) were characterized by their ability to produce oxalic acid only when CaCO(3) was added to the medium. With the latter group, shake-culturing was generally more effective than stationary culturing in respect to acid production. In the CaCO(3)-containing media, Schizophyllum commune, Merulius tremellosus, and Porodisculus pendulus were found to produce substantial amounts of L-malic acid as a main metabolic product, along with small quantities of oxalic and other acids in shake cultures. Especially, S. commune and M. tremellosus may be employed as malic acid-producing species
5867654
The penicillin acylase activity of Penicillium chrysogenum was studied. Washed mycelial suspensions of a high penicillin-producing and a nonproducing strain were found to be similar in respect to relative acylase activity on benzylpenicillin, 2-pentenylpenicillin, heptylpenicillin, and phenoxymethylpenicillin. The relative rates for both strains, as determined by 6-aminopenicillanic acid formation, were approximately 1.0, 2.5, 3.5, and 6.0 on the penicillins in the order given. The high producing strain formed both 6-aminopenicillanic acid and "natural" penicillins in fermentations to which no side-chain precursor had been added. Therefore, its demonstrated ability to cleave the natural penicillins, 2-pentenylpenicillin and heptylpenicillin, suggests that at least some of the 6-aminopenicillanic acid produced during such fermentations arises from the hydrolysis of the natural penicillins. At pH 8.5, the mycelial acylase activity of the nonproducing strain was about three times that at pH 6.0; at 35 C, it was about 1.5 times as active as it was at 30 C. When tested on penicillin G or V, no differences in either total or specific penicillin acylase activity were observed among mycelia harvested from cultures of the nonproducer to which penicillin G, penicillin V, or no penicillin had been added. Acetone-dried mycelium from both strains displayed acylase activity, but considerably less than that shown by viable mycelium. Culture filtrates were essentially inactive, although a very low order of activity was detected when culture filtrate from the nonproducer was treated with acetone and the acetone-precipitated material was assayed in a minimal amount of buffer
5867655
A study was made of Penicillium chrysogenum and some other fungi to determine the relative distribution of intra- and extracellular invertase produced by them in submerged fermentation. The proportion of each type of enzyme varied with the organism and the period of fermentation. More of the enzyme initially bound to the mycelium was released into the medium with the progress of fermentation. Differences were observed in the effects of cultural conditions on enzyme production in P. chrysogenum and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Considerably greater quantities of enzyme were produced by P. chrysogenum and the yeast in both laboratory and large-scale fermentors when sucrose was added continuously than when the same quantities of the sugar were added initially
5867656
Although most microorganisms with genetic blocks in the purine nucleotide sequence excrete breakdown products, a coryneform bacterium was found to accumulate intact 5'-nucleotides in the extracellular medium. Adenineless mutants accumulated 0.4 to 0.6 g of inosine-5'-monophosphate per liter of broth. The yield of this nucleotide was increased to 0.8 to 0.9 g per liter when such mutants were mutated to xanthine dependence. Induction of a specific guanine requirement in adenineless auxotrophs resulted in cultures capable of producing high yields of xanthosine-5'-monophosphate (3 to 4 g per liter). Pure xanthosine-5'-monophosphate was isolated from broth by a procedure involving ion-exchange chromatography, charcoal adsorption, and barium precipitation
5867658
An apparatus is described and illustrated which enables an investigator to inoculate simultaneously a large number of unicellular algal suspensions onto an agar surface. These inoculations may be repeated an indefinite number of times with a very small amount of inoculum. Good results have been obtained from tests in which large numbers of algae were placed onto selective media containing various amounts of many antibiotics, growth factors, sugars, etc
5874531
Consigli, Richard A. (University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia), and Harold S. Ginsberg. Control of aspartate transcarbamylase activity in type 5 adenovirus-infected HeLa cells. J. Bacteriol. 87:1027-1033. 1964.-Type 5 adenovirus infection induces increased aspartate transcarbamylase (ATCase) activity during the period of magnified nucleic acid biosynthesis. Increased activity can be prevented by addition of pyrimidines to the culture medium. ATCase in HeLa cells is regulated by feedback inhibition, and purified enzyme can be inhibited in vitro by cytidine triphosphate (CTP). The enzyme from infected cells has a pH optimum, maximal velocity, and K(m) for aspartate distinctly different from ATCase from control cells. However, heating of ATCase from uninfected cells converts the enzyme so that its characteristics are identical with enzyme from infected cells. Conversely, addition of CTP to ATCase from infected cells changes the characteristics of the enzyme so that they are the same as those of enzyme from uninfected cells. The evidence presented suggests that increased nucleic acid biosynthesis in infected cells initiates a release from feedback inhibition and increases ATCase activity by reducing the concentration of pyrimidines and purines in the acid-soluble pool
5874532
Manion, R. E. (Veterans Administration Hospital, Minneapolis, Minn.), S. G. Bradley, H. H. Zinneman, and W. H. Hall. Interrelationships among mycobacteria and nocardiae. J. Bacteriol. 87:1056-1859. 1964.-A total of 134 strains of mycobacteria and nocardiae were tested for susceptibility of 24 mycobacteriophages. On the basis of capability of diverse strains to serve as alternative propagating hosts for particular viruses, relationships among the actinomycetes were proposed. Cultures received as Mycobacterium smegmatis, M. ranae, M. butyricum, and M. chelonei were nearly identical, indicating that they are members of a single taxon. M. phlei and M. fortuitum strains constituted two distinct but related groups. Moreover, strains of M. smegmatis and Nocardia asteroides were susceptible to two variant actinophages originally isolated on N. brasiliensis
5874533
Saunders, Grady F. (University of Illinois, Urbana), L. Leon Campbell, and John R. Postgate. Base composition of deoxyribonucleic acid of sulfate-reducing bacteria deduced from buoyant density measurements in cesium chloride. J. Bacteriol. 87:1073-1078. 1964.-The base composition of the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) of sulfate-reducing bacteria was calculated from buoyant density measurements in CsCl. The sporulating sulfate-reducing bacteria fell into two groups: Desulfovibrio orientis with a DNA base composition of 42% guanine plus cytosine (G + C), and Clostridium nigrificans with a DNA base composition of 45% G + C. The mesophilic relative of C. nigrificans had a DNA base composition of 46% G + C. Thirty strains of nonsporulating sulfate-reducing bacteria called D. desulfuricans were studied. They fell into three groups as judged by DNA base composition: group I (11 strains), 60 to 62% G + C; group II (13 strains), 54 to 56% G + C; and group III (6 strains), 46 to 47% G + C. These data underline the need for a taxonomic revision of this group of microorganisms
5874534
Bernheimer, Alan W. (New York University School of Medicine, New York), and Lois L. Schwartz. Lysosomal disruption by bacterial toxins. J. Bacteriol. 87:1100-1104. 1964.-Seventeen bacterial toxins were examined for capacity (i) to disrupt rabbit leukocyte lysosomes as indicated by decrease in turbidity of lysosomal suspensions, and (ii) to alter rabbit liver lysosomes as measured by release of beta-glucuronidase and acid phosphatase. Staphylococcal alpha-toxin, Clostridium perfringens alpha-toxin, and streptolysins O and S affected lysosomes in both systems. Staphylococcal beta-toxin, leucocidin and enterotoxin, Shiga neurotoxin, Serratia endotoxin, diphtheria toxin, tetanus neurotoxin, C. botulinum type A toxin, and C. perfringens epsilon-toxin were not active in either system. Staphylococcal delta-toxin, C. histolyticum collagenase, crude C. perfringens beta-toxin, and crude anthrax toxin caused lysosomal damage in only one of the test systems. There is a substantial correlation between the hemolytic property of a toxin and its capacity to disrupt lysosomes, lending support to the concept that erythrocytes and lysosomes are bounded by similar membranes
5874535
Aron, H. (University of California, Santa Barbara), H. H. Yonenaka, and H. I. Nakada. Glucosamine-6-phosphate degradation by Proteus vulgaris and isolation of phosphoglucosaminisomerase. J. Bacteriol. 87:1123-1128. 1964.-The presence of the enzyme, phosphoglucosaminisomerase, was demonstrated in a strain of Proteus vulgaris. Fructose-6-phosphate and ammonia were shown to be the primary reaction products. The optimal pH was 7.2 with a broad peak. This differs from previously reported bacterial phosphoglucosaminisomerases which had a pH optimum of about 5.8. Other properties of the enzyme are presented
5874536
Kushner, D. J. (National Research Council, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada). Lysis and dissolution of cells and envelopes of an extremely halophilic bacterium. J. Bacteriol. 87:1147-1156. 1964.-Envelopes of the extremely halophilic bacterium, Halobacterium cutirubrum, disintegrate in the absence of salt to form much smaller particles. Extensive proteolytic breakdown to compounds of low molecular weight is not involved in this process or in the lysis of cells in the absence of salt. NaCl is much more effective than KCl or NH(4)Cl in preserving the integrity of intact cells, but is only slightly more effective in preserving the integrity of mechanically prepared envelopes, of cells made permeable by treatment with acid, and of cells made permeable by formalin fixation followed by exposure to water. MgCl(2) is much more effective in preserving the integrity of these preparations than of intact cells. The results suggest that the exterior cell surface has sites specifically requiring Na(+) to maintain their integrity, whereas the interior surface has sites whose integrity is maintained at least as well by K(+) or NH(4) (+) as by Na(+)
5874537
Kolstad, R. A. (University of Minnesota, Minneapolis), and S. G. Bradley. Purification of Streptomyces venezuelae phage. J. Bacteriol. 87:1157-1161. 1964.-Streptomyces venezuelae phage MSP8 was concentrated and purified by a combination of methods including dialysis against polyethylene glycol, partitioning between the two phases of aqueous polymer systems, gel filtration, chromatography on ECTEOLA-cellulose, and differential centrifugation. S. venezuelae phage MSP8 is 57% deoxyribonucleic acid and 43% protein. Its head is 55 by 70 mmu, and its tail is 10 by 150 mmu. Its dry weight is 250 mg per 10(15) plaqueforming units, and its density is 1.4. Phage MSP8 contains 15 mug of phosphorus and 40 mug of nitrogen per 10(12) particles. The ratio of light absorbancy at 260 to 280 mmu is 1.5. A mixture of two actinophages, MNP3 and MVP7, was separated by use of ECTEOLA-cellulose. In one fraction, 99% of the phage was MNP3; in another fraction, 99% of the phage was MVP7
5874538
Wick, Warren E. (The Lilly Research Laboratories, Indianapolis, Ind.). Influence of antibiotic stability on the results of in vitro testing procedures. J. Bacteriol. 87:1162-1170. 1964.-Certain antibiotics undergo at least partial degradation under the conditions of in vitro testing procedures. With cephalothin used as an example, experimental evidence is presented to indicate the necessity for re-evaluation of results obtained from in vitro sensitivity testing methods for some antibiotics. The in vitro activity of cephalothin, tetracycline, and chloramphenicol against a variety of gram-negative bacteria is described. Plate counts demonstrate changes in the viable cell population over a 48-hr period in tubes of minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) tests, with an abrupt rise in MIC value for cephalothin between the 12th and 24th hr. Data obtained by chromatographic methods, showing the degradation of cephalothin for the same time interval, indicated that instability of the antibiotic between the 12th and 24th hr might adversely affect the results obtained from standard 20- to 24-hr in vitro antibiotic sensitivity testing methods. Because repeated administration of an antibiotic to a patient at 4- to 8-hr intervals reinforces the original concentration, a more accurate estimate of antibacterial activity of that antibiotic might preferably be related to this time interval
5874539
Werly, Emil F. (Midwest Research Institute, Kansas City, Mo.), and Anne Monley. Assay of T(3) phage by plaque count. J. Bacteriol. 87:1177-1179. 1964.-T(3) phage-count determinations were made by the agar layer method, with various media being used for serial dilutions, plate media, and overlayer media. Plaques produced with Tryptose-phosphate-dextrose hard agar as plate and overlayer media were small, distinct, sharply defined, and easily counted. With the media described, several hundred plaques per plate can be counted, after either 4 or 20 hr of incubation
5874540
Bladen, Howard A. (National Institute of Dental Health, Bethesda, Md.), and Edward G. Hampp. Ultrastructure of Treponema microdentium and Borrelia vincentii. J. Bacteriol. 87:1180-1191.-A small oral Treponema (FM) and Borrelia vincentii (N9) were harvested after 3 to 7 days of incubation and either embedded in Vestopal W or negatively stained with phosphotungstate. The protoplasmic cylinders of both strains were identical except for size, and had a triple-structured cell wall as well as intracellular concentric laminations. Protoplasmic cylinders of both strains were enclosed in a cell envelope which appeared amorphous in negatively stained preparations, but which had a triple-structured wall when viewed in thin sections. The cell envelope of strain FM also acted as an envelope for the terminal filament; no filament envelope was evident in strain N9. Large structures which contained variable numbers of organisms and which were representative of spirochetal granules were observed. Protoplasmic cylinders contained within such granules frequently were devoid of cell envelopes. The axial filament consisted of several individual fibers which usually terminated in small end knobs. Occasionally, a fiber of the axial filament became a fiber of the terminal filament. Fibers of the terminal filament originated in end knobs similar to, but separate from, those to which the axial filament was attached. A periodicity of 60 A was occasionally observed in the terminal filament envelope of strain FM. A microperiodicity of approximately 20 A was also observed. The fibers of the terminal filament of strain N9 were composed of a large number of fibrils approximately 15 A wide. The periodicity and fibrillar structure of the terminal filament is discussed with reference to proposed models of bacterial flagella suggested by X-ray diffraction data
5874541
Banville, Robert R. (The Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C.). Factors affecting growth of Staphylococcus aureus L forms on semidefined medium. J. Bacteriol. 87:1192-1197. 1964.-A semidefined agar medium was found suitable for production and cultivation of the L form of Staphylococcus aureus. In semidefined liquid medium, growth of the L form took place in the form of a sediment containing large masses of cells, but heavy and diffuse growth occurred in the same medium with 0.05% agar. The optimal pH for L-colony formation on solid medium was 6.5. More L colonies developed on 0.75% agar than at higher agar concentrations. L colonies developed in greater numbers on pour plates than on streak plates, and in some cases more L colonies appeared under anaerobic incubation. L-colony formation appeared to be inhibited by sodium citrate. The vitamin requirements of the L forms studied were similar to those of the classical form
5874542
Castleberry, Merida W. (U.S. Army Biological Laboratories, Fort Detrick, Frederick, Md.), John L. Converse, and Peter J. Soto, Jr. Antibiotic control of tissue reactions in dogs vaccinated with viable cells of Coccidioides immitis. J. Bacteriol. 87:1216-1220. 1964.-A total of 12 dogs (15 to 25 lb each), vaccinated with viable Coccidioides immitis (subcutaneous injection of 260 viable arthrospores in the medial surface of the hind leg), resisted a respiratory challenge (aerosol) with the same organism (13,000 viable arthrospores) administered (aerosol) 2 months after vaccination. Oral amphotericin B therapy (150 mg of Fungizone per day for 21 days) of 6 of the 12 dogs, initiated immediately after vaccination, eliminated the undesirable side reactions of the viable vaccine (ulcerated vaccination site and inguinal lymphadenopathy exhibited by the 6 untreated dogs) without affecting the immunogenicity of the vaccine. Clinical observation (blood-urea nitrogen levels) during and after therapy and histological examination approximately 3 months after respiratory challenge failed to disclose any evidence of nephrotoxicity or renal damage due to the oral antibiotic therapy (total doses of more than 3 g of amphotericin B)
5874548
Flanagan, John F. (University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia), and Harold S. Ginsberg. Role of ribonucleic acid biosynthesis in multiplication of type 5 adenovirus. J. Bacteriol. 87:977-987. 1964.-The requirement for ribonucleic acid (RNA) biosynthesis in the multiplication of type 5 adenovirus was investigated by using radioactive phosphorus to label nucleic acids and two pyrimidine analogues, 6-azauridine and 5-fluorouracil or 5-fluorouridine, to inhibit synthesis of functional RNA. The data indicate that biosynthesis of RNA after infection is essential for production of virus-specific deoxyribonucleic acid, virus antigens, and infectious particles. The onset of essential RNA synthesis occurs 8 to 9 hr after virus infection and prior to the biosynthesis of other known virus-induced macromolecules
5874549
Wolin, E. A. (University of Illinois, Urbana), R. S. Wolfe, and M. J. Wolin. Viologen dye inhibition of methane formation by Methanobacillus omelianskii. J. Bacteriol. 87:993-998. 1964.-Low concentrations of methyl or benzyl viologen inhibit the formation of CH(4) from ethanol and CO(2) by washed cells of Methanobacillus omelianskii. Hydrogen, which is normally formed from ethanol, accumulates in greater quantities when CH(4) formation is inhibited by viologens. The viologens do not stimulate H(2) formation from ethanol in the absence of CO(2). Inhibition of CH(4) formation by the viologens is not reversed by H(2). A variety of other dyes and possible electron acceptors were tested for inhibition, and none was inhibitory in the same low-concentration range at which the viologens were effective
5851396
Unconditioned aggressive-display behavior elicited by the mirror image of a male Siamese Fighting Fish was brought under the control of a previously ineffective stimulus by classical conditioning. A stimulus light repeatedly paired with mirror presentation came to elicit the complex aggressive-behavior sequence. Relative rates of acquisition of four components of the display were compared. Fin erection and undulating movements were acquired most rapidly while gill-cover erection and frontal approach were acquired most slowly. A discriminative conditioning procedure revealed that the response was specifically elicited by the conditioned stimulus, and not a sensitization artifact
5851398
Children learned to respond differentially to four tones when correct responses were indicated by re-sounding the tone and flashing a signal lamp (simple knowledge of results). Correct responses were then made to advance a display counter. With this procedure, rate of response increased, but accuracy decreased. Mild punishment-points subtracted from the count-was then arranged for incorrect responses. Accuracy returned to or above its previous level. Response rate tended to remain above its initial level. These results indicate that when supplementary reinforcers are employed, precise contingencies must be arranged to ensure desired behavior
5851397
An attempt was made to strengthen behaviors of psychotics by applying operant reinforcement principles in a mental hospital ward. The behaviors studied were necessary and/or useful for the patient to function in the hospital environment. Reinforcement consisted of the opportunity to engage in activities that had a high level of occurrence when freely allowed. Tokens were used as conditioned reinforcers to bridge the delay between behavior and reinforcement. Emphasis was placed on objective definition and quantification of the responses and reinforcers and upon programming and recording procedures. Standardizing the objective criteria permitted ward attendants to administer the program. The procedures were found to be effective in maintaining the desired adaptive behaviors for as long as the procedures were in effect. In a series of six experiments, reinforced behaviors were considerably reduced when the reinforcement procedure was discontinued; the adaptive behaviors increased immediately when the reinforcement procedure was re-introduced
5852970
Eight different flavone C-glycosides from Mnium affine were tentatively identified by chromatography and spectroscopy. Quercetin-3-diglycoside and other unidentified flavonoids were found in M. arizonicum. The fiavonoid chemistry standing of its systematics
5852971
Cochlear potentials measured in several species of lizard show a close correlation between maximum electrical output and number of hair cells, whereas there is no uniform relation to sensitivity. These results are interpreted as indicating structural differentiation and frequency discrimination in spatial terms in the more advanced lizard ears
5852972
Genetic analysis of several hundred progeny from crosses of two heterothallic species of Achlya and Dictyuchus provides preliminary information about the life cycle and pattern of sexuality in the biflagellate Phycomycetes. Extensive testing of mycelial progeny indicates a diploid life cycle. Control of sexual expression and mating competence appears to be based on a complex genetic system
5852973
Guinea pigs injected with 100 micrograms of p-azobenzenearsonate derivatives of hexa-L-tyrosine, tri-L-tyrosine, or N-acetyl-L-tyrosine amide, in complete Freund's adjuvant, developed, after 10 to 19 days, delayed-type hypersensitivity to these substances. This was shown by skin reactions, followed by the formation of circulating antibodies that were detectable by passive cutaneous anaphylaxis. Experiments with p-azobenzenearsonate-hexa-L-tyrosine labeledwith iodine-131 showed that this substance was bound in vitro to proteins of normal guinea pig serum. Binding was similar with the nonantigenic hexa-L-tyrosine and its p-azobenzoate derivative
5852974
Paramagnetic cations quench the phosphorescence of DNA at concentrations well below one ion per DNA phosphate. The order of quenching efficiency is copper, nickel, cobalt, and manganese
5852975
Three mutants at three different phosphatase loci produce inactive enzymes at 35 degrees C but partially or fully active enzynmes at 25 degrees C. Furthermore, a suppressor mutant (su5palA1) which restores alkaline phosphatase activity in the palA1 mtutant is an allele of palcC4, a mzutant with a simultaneous reduction in alkaline and acid phosphatase activity. These data suggest that the phosphataseproteins may be made up of two or more different polypeptide chains, and that some of the polypeptide chains are common to two or more of these enzymes
5852976
Absolute hearing thresholds for two bats were determined by an operant conditioning technique. Pure tones rangingFrom 2.5 to 100 kilocycles per second were perceived by a single Eptesicus fuscus. Its maximum sensitivity was on the order of 68 decibles below 1 dyne per square centimeter and occurred at 20 kc/ sec. Maximum sensitivity for a single Myotis lucifugus was about 64 db below 1 dyne/ cm2 and occurred at 40 kc/ sec. The Myotis clearly heard a tone of120 kc/ sec but gave no evidence of hearing below 10 kc/ sec
5853074
The streptococcal cell wall mucopeptide when injected into mice either intraperitoneally or intravenously enhances the resitance to subsequent challenge with virulent Group A streptococci. Rabbits which are injected intravenously with solubilized mucopeptide develop a fever response which has a resemblance to that achieved with endotoxin. Mice which survive 6 to 7 weeks after challenge with virulent Group A streptococci yield at autopsy search Group A streptococci serologically identical to the challenge organisms. A preparative dose of cell walls injected into mice prior to challenge diminished this late recovery of streptococci. Group A-variant streptococci were recovered from mice which survived challenge and carried the organisms for several weeks. Filterable bacterial forms, which grew on L form media, were recovered from infected mice. The serologic type of the L forms was identical to that of the challenge organisms
5853075
Plasma LDH levels were determined in normal and Riley virus-infected mice following treatment with various drugs known to alter the activity of the RES. The rise in plasma LDH level after Riley virus infection was considerably enhanced by previous treatment with thorotrast (to produce blockade of the RES), and decreased by previous treatment with stilboestrol (to stimulate the RES). A dose of 2000 r whole-body x-irradiation, lethal within 3 to 4 days, did not alter the phagocytic activity of the RES, and was without effect on plasma LDH activity in normal mice, or on the rise in plasma LDH level following infection with Riley virus. Blockade of the RES with cholesterol oleate, thorotrast, or zymosan, resulted in a 2- to 3-fold rise in plasma LDH level within a few hours. The level returned to normal by 1 to 3 days. Stimulation of the RES with stilboestrol resulted in a decrease in plasma LDH level by 1 to 2 days in both normal and infected mice, with a return to normal by about a week. Blockade of the RES in uninfected mice with thorotrast or cholesterol oleate, besides increasing the plasma LDH level caused a rise in plasma phosphoglucose isomerase level, but no significant alterations in plasma aldolase or alanine transaminase levels, studied up to 10 days. Riley virus causes a similar pattern of enzyme elevation. It is suggested that the increased levels of certain plasma enzymes in Riley virus-infected mice may be due to competitive inhibition by virus particles of plasma enzyme clearance by the RES
5853076
The level of viraemia was determined in serial blood samples obtained from 2 mice after the injection of Riley virus. The plasma virus titre rose rapidly to a peak value of 10(9) to 10(10)ID(50) per ml by 24 hours after infection, and then fell slowly to a level of 10(5) to 10(6)ID(50) per ml by the 10th day after infection, where it remained relatively stable. Neither blockade of the RES with thorotrast, zymosan, or carbon, nor stimulation of the RES with stilboestrol or zymosan, before the injection of Riley virus, produced any observable alteration in the level of viraemia attained 24 hours after infection. However 10 days or more after infection with Riley virus blockade of the RES with thorotrast caused a transitory rise, and stimulation of the RES with stilboestrol caused a slight but prolonged fall, in the level of viraemia. Zymosan injection at this period of infection caused an initial rise, followed by a fall, in the level of viraemia; these changes correlated with the initial period of blockade and the subsequent period of stimulation of the RES observed in carbon clearance studies. The clearance of injected Riley virus particles from the plasma over a period of 3 hours after injection was measured in previously uninfected mice and mice which had been infected with Riley virus for 3 weeks. The mice which had been infected 3 weeks before the test cleared rather more of the injected virus than the previously uninfected mice. It is concluded that although the activity of the RES affects, and may determine, the level of viraemia, the permanence of the viraemia in Riley virus-infected mice does not appear to be due to a failure of the RES to clear virus particles from the plasma
5853932
In response to the floral stimulus, Xanthium buds synthesize relatively more messenger RNA than do vegetative buds. This is demonstrated by fractionation, on methylated albumin-kieselguhr columns, of a mixture of nucleic acids from vegetative and induced buds, one being labeled with uridine-H(3) and the other with uridine-2-C(14). While floral induction stimulates a small increase in messenger RNA synthesis as revealed by labeling intact plants, this difference can be magnified by labeling excised buds in solution. From experiments with excised buds from Xanthium plants, it is concluded that buds from photoperiodically induced plants contain more messenger RNA than buds from noninduced ones do
5853933
Electrophoretic differences in hemoglobins and transferrins serve to differentiate Anolis of the same species populating the Lesser Antilles. When based on protein analyses, identifications of individuals may be less equivocal than identification based on descriptions of skin color and markings. Protein differences among island populations appear to be associated with long periods of geographic isolation. Such evidence often confirms estimates of relationship derived from more traditional criteria and in some cases provides a basis for formulating new taxonomic conclusions
5853934
Animals injected with venom of the scorpion Centruroides sculpturatus Ewing or venom of the rattlesnake Crotalus atrox Baird and Girard were subjected to high-and low-temperature stress. Unconditioned animals transferred to a modified temperature were less refractory to the venoms than those conditioned for 48 hours, but all animals stressed were less refractory than unstressed animals. Animals receiving a series of small doses of epinephrine were similarly affected. This apparent change in toxicity of the venoms seems to be due to the physiological effects of stress rather than to the temperature per se
5853935
Ribosomal RNA extracted from peripheral lymphocytes, which had been recently stimulated by specific antigens to which the donor was sensitized, is capable of promoting transformation and mitosis when added to cultures of autologous unstimulated lymphocytes
5853937
Electromyographic studies of the monosynaptic reflex in 70 Parkinsonian patients and 12 normal subjects show four types of abnormal facilitation and recovery curves in the Parkinsonian group, types that correspond to variations in the clinical syndrome; Cryosurgical lesions in the, ventro-lateral and ventro-postero-lateral nuclei of the thalamus restore essentially normal curves
5853936
Short-day photoperiods in conjunction with a second stimulus were required to induce sexual reproduction (and diapause) in an autumnally diapausing strain of Daphnia pulex. The second stimulus was associated with the unalkalized portion of a small lake and with density of the population in laboratory cultures. Diapause was induced at 12 degrees and 19 degrees C
5853938
The DDT associated with samples of airborne particulates was measured by gas chromatography. Because of possible vaporization of DDT during sampling, concentrations reported represent minimum values but demonstrate that DDT can be present in an urban atmosphere that is distant from any large-scale agricultural activity
5853939
A method for determining the spectral sensitivity of the different color mechanisms of the human eye uses the pattern of color names applied to small, brief, dim, monochromatic flashes. Such responses are often due to the activation of single neural units. Preliminary spectral sensitivity curves for two color mechanisms have been obtained
5854428
The medium of drug transfer is the water of plasma and extracellular fluid. Without complicating factors, the level of drug at a receptor site would be equal to that in the tissues and in plasma, and in dynamic equilibrium. Actually, almost all drugs are reversibly bound to proteins in plasma or tissue. The bound drug, often a high proportion of the total, acts as a reservoir, preventing wild fluctuations between ineffective and toxic levels of the biologically active unbound fraction.Displacement from a receptor site diminishes drug activity, but displacement from plasma or tissue proteins augments the effect by making more unbound drug available at the receptor site.Atropine has no intrinsic activity, but displaces acetylcholine or pilocarpine from receptors at para-sympathetic nerve endings. Similarly guanethidine competes with noradrenaline at sympathetic nerve endings, but in turn is displaced by amphetamine-like drugs.Many acidic drugs (phenylbutazone, sulfonamides, coumarin anticoagulants, salicylates, &amp;c.) are highly bound to one or two sites on albumin molecules. When the limited carrying capacity of the plasma proteins is filled, any unbound surplus is usually soon metabolized or excreted, so the plasma level becomes restabilized. Meanwhile, however, there may be dramatic effects such as hypoglycemia, when sulfonamides are given to patients on tolbutamide, or bleeding when phenylbutazone is given to patients on warfarin.Although hormones, like thyroxine, insulin and cortisol, are carried by specific proteins, they too can be displaced. All the antirheumatic drugs so far examined have displaced cortisol and presumably driven it into tissues. This may be one mechanism of action. Possibly the sulfonylurea drugs act by displacing insulin from proteins in the pancreas, plasma or elsewhere
5854582
Gaudy, Elizabeth T. (University of Illinois, Urbana), R. Bojanowski, R. C. Valentine, and R. S. Wolfe. Ureidoglycolate synthetase of Streptococcus allantoicus. I. Measurement of glyoxylate and enzyme purification. J. Bacteriol. 90:1525-1530. 1965.-A new spectrophotometric method for the determination of glyoxylate is described. The technique is based on measurement of the initial rate of formation of glyoxylic acid phenylhydrazone in neutral solution. Its advantages include rapidity and convenience, suitability for use with mixtures containing acid-labile substrates, and elimination of possibly inhibitory reagents from the enzyme incubation mixture. Ureidoglycolate synthetase, which cleaves ureidoglycolate to glyoxylate and urea, was purified from crude extracts of Streptococcus allantoicus grown on allantoin-containing medium. The purification procedures include treatment with MnCl(2), fractionation on calcium phosphate gel, fractional precipitation with ammonium sulfate, and column chromatography on diethylaminoethyl cellulose. The final enzyme preparation was purified 77-fold and contained 35% of the total activity of the extract
5854583
Gaudy, Elizabeth T. (University of Illinois, Urbana), and R. S. Wolfe. Ureidoglycolate synthetase of Streptococcus allantoicus. II. Properties of the enzyme and reaction equilibrium. J. Bacteriol. 90:1531-1536. 1965.-The properties of ureidoglycolate synthetase from Streptococcus allantoicus grown on allantoin were studied, by use of the purified enzyme preparation and crystalline sodium ureidoglycolate. Ureidoglycolate synthetase activity was maximal over the pH range of 8.4 to 8.8. No cofactors were required for the reaction. Enzyme activity was inhibited by p-chloromercuribenzoate at relatively high concentrations, by Hg(++) or Zn(++) ions, and to a lesser extent by several other metal cations. The maximal velocity for the purified ureidoglycolate synthetase, determined graphically from a Lineweaver-Burk plot, was 220 mumoles of glyoxylate formed per min per mg of protein. The substrate concentration required for half-maximal velocity was 3.3 x 10(-2)m. The equilibrium constant for the synthesis of ureidoglycolate was determined in a series of reaction mixtures covering a wide range of initial concentrations of reactants. The position of the equilibrium was not affected by a change in pH or by the presence of enzyme. The equilibrium constant for the reaction in the direction of synthesis was 7.6, corresponding to a negative free energy change of 1,230 cal per mole
5854584
Kim, K. (University of Washington, Seattle), and N. B. Groman. Mode of inhibition of diphtheria toxin by ammonium chloride. J. Bacteriol. 90:1557-1562. 1965.-The inhibition of diphtheria toxin by ammonium salts was independent of toxin concentration over a 100-fold range of toxin. Inhibition by minimal concentrations of ammonium chloride was abolished by lowering the pH, indicating that free ammonia is the active form of inhibitor. A single addition of ammonium chloride inhibited toxin for a limited period of time, but periodic readdition of the ammonium salt was required to sustain inhibition indefinitely in the absence of antitoxin. Toxin was not destroyed and its adsorption occurred equally well in the presence or absence of ammonium chloride. Preadsorbed toxin was also effectively inhibited by the addition of ammonium chloride. Inhibited toxin remained accessible to antitoxin neutralization. Attempts to reverse ammonia inhibition by the addition of succinate or reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide were unsuccessful. Attempts to inhibit toxin by interfering with active transport were also unsuccessful
5854585
Groman, Neal B. (University of Washington, Seattle). Factors in lysis and lysis inhibition by lambda bacteriophage. J. Bacteriol. 90:1563-1568. 1965.-Induced Escherichia coli strain K-12(lambda112) exhibited lysis inhibition at 37 C but lysed at 44 C when incubated in LB medium lacking NaCl [LB - (NaCl)]. In LB medium containing NaCl, the temperatures for lysis and lysis inhibition were reversed. In contrast, induced K-12(lambda) lysed under all of these conditions. At 37 C, the addition of NaCl to LB - (NaCl) at various times after induction of K-12(lambda112) restored lysis. The degree of lysis decreased the longer the addition was delayed, but partial restoration occurred as late as 150 min postinduction. At 44 C, the addition of salt at various times after induction restored lysis inhibition even after lysis had begun. An attempt was made to correlate the conditions for lysis and lysis inhibition with the behavior of lambda112 endloysin. The enzymatic activities of lambda and mutant lambda112 endolysins were compared under various salt-temperature conditions. Both endolysins were progressively and equally inhibited by increasing concentrations of Na(+), K(+), and Li(+) salts, and exhibited similar relative activities at 24 and 37 C. Both were stable at 37 C in the presence and absence of NaCl, and were inactivated at comparable rates at 44 C. The results indicate that the effect of salt and temperature on lysis and lysis inhibition cannot be explained by their direct effect on lambda112 endolysin
5854586
Wilkins, Peter O. (New Jersey College of Medicine and Dentistry, Jersey City), and Vincent P. Cirillo. Sorbose counterflow as a measure of intracellular glucose in baker's yeast. J. Bacteriol. 90:1605-1610. 1965.-The intracellular concentration of glucose in metabolizing baker's yeast was determined indirectly from the glucose-induced counterflow of previously accumulated sorbose. The method is based on the concept that sugar transport in yeast is a symmetrical facilitated diffusion. The intracellular glucose concentration increased with an increase in the extracellular concentration and was higher in aerobiosis than in anaerobiosis. The concentrations were considerably greater than those obtained by direct analysis of intracellular glucose. Calculation of the apparent maximal velocity of glucose transport yielded values which varied with the rate of metabolism and the extracellular concentration. This suggests that during glucose metabolism the transport of hexoses includes elements that are not revealed by experiments involving metabolic inhibitors or nonmetabolizable sugars
5854587
Wallis, Craig (Baylor University College of Medicine, Houston, Tex.), and Joseph L. Melnick. Thermostabilization and thermosensitization of herpesvirus. J. Bacteriol. 90:1632-1637. 1965.-Herpesvirus, long considered as one of the most thermolabile of viruses, was stabilized by 1 m Na(2)SO(4) or Na(2)HPO(4) so that it withstood heating at 50 C, but the virus was not protected by 1 m MgCl(2), MgSO(4), or KH(2)PO(4), or 2 m KCl or NaCl; 1 m Na(2)SO(4) also stabilized herpesvirus at 25 and 37 C. In contrast, herpesvirus was made extremely thermosensitive in the presence of isotonic salt concentrations or of isotonic tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane buffer, especially at pH 7.2 or above. Partially purified virus was relatively thermostable when suspended in distilled water at pH 7.2, but in Earle's salt solution the virus immediately became thermosensitive. As found in tissue culture harvests, herpesvirus was thermolabile, but the virus was rendered stable at 50 C by simple dilution in distilled water. Protection by proteins or amino acids, generally accepted as virus-stabilizing agents, did not seem to be the result of a direct effect upon herpesvirus. The present data suggest that the added proteins counteract in part thermosensitizing effects of the salts contained in the virus harvest
5854588
Lockhart, W. R. (Iowa State University, Ames), and Karen Koenig. Use of secondary data in numerical taxonomy of the genus Erwinia. J. Bacteriol. 90:1638-1644. 1965.-Numerical methods were used to study 34 bacterial cultures, including several species of Erwinia and selected representatives of other genera of the Enterobacteriaceae. Separate computations were made by use of varying amounts of secondary data (i.e., information regarding descriptive or quantitative characters applicable only to organisms yielding a positive result in another primary character). Substantially the same groupings of the test organisms were obtained in all computations, but definition of groups seemed to be more precise when secondary data were included. The results confirm proposals by other workers that E. carotovora, E. aroideae, E. atroseptica, and E. ananas be placed in a single species, separate from E. amylovora. Limited evidence suggests that E. nimipressuralis and E. chrysanthemi may be distinct species, and that some strains of E. amylovora are not very similar either to one another or to other members of the Enterobacteriaceae
5854589
Moore, D. H. (The Rockefeller University, New York, N. Y.), R. N. Arison, H. Tanaka, W. T. Hall, and M. Chanowitz. Identity of the filterable hemolytic anemia agent of Sacks with Haemobartonella muris. J. Bacteriol. 90:1669-1674. 1965.-In 1960 a new hemolytic agent in rats was reported. It was thought to be a filterable, nonsedimentable, replicating infectious agent, different from Haemobartonella muris. Rats which recovered from the infection developed a resistance to several kinds of transplantable tumors. It is here shown that this agent has the same properties as those reported in the literature and reconfirmed by us for H. muris. The size of the agent is approximately 500 mmu as determined by correlating bioactivity with Gradocol membrane filtrates and fractions from a diffusion cell, and its density is about midway between that of whole serum and distilled water (approximately 1.020) as determined by the sedimentation of bioactivity in an ultracentrifuge. Diffusion at 30 C indicated a lack of motility by the agent bodies. Rats were found to be protected against infection with the agent by daily administration of chlortetracycline and by prior infection with H. muris. The agent bodies were indistinguishable from H. muris in both the light and the electron microscope
5854590
Duerre, John A. (University of North Dakota, Grand Forks), and Patrick J. Buckley. Pigment production from tryptophan by an Achromobacter species. J. Bacteriol. 90:1686-1691. 1965.-A microorganism was isolated from the soil near the University of North Dakota. Biochemical and morphological characteristics indicated that this organism would best be classified as a member of the family Achromobacteraceae, genus Achromobacter, species unknown. The organism produced a red pigment when grown in a medium containing yeast extract and tryptophan. The pH optimum for pigment production was about 8.0 and the optimal temperature was 25 C. During a study of the nutritional requirements for growth and pigment production, it was found that the organism would grow and produce pigment in a medium containing tryptophan and nucleosides, but the rate of both growth and pigment formation in this medium was slower than that observed with tryptophan and yeast extract. The organism grew well in the presence of acid-hydrolyzed casein and nucleosides without producing pigment, indicating that the pigment is not necessary for growth. Resting-cell experiments definitely established tryptophan as the sole exogenous requirement for pigment production. The pigment was extracted from yeast extract-tryptophan medium with chloroform. Thin layer chromatographic analysis of the crude pigment extracted from this medium revealed the presence of two other pigments in addition to the major red pigment. One of these was a highly fluorescent orange pigment and the other a pink pigment. Only the red pigment was produced by resting cells in the presence of tryptophan alone. This pigment served as an electron acceptor when coupled with formic dehydrogenase, indicating its possible function as an oxidation-reduction pigment. The oxidized pigment had absorption peaks at 506 and 304 mmu. The peak at 506 mmu disappeared upon reduction with sodium sulfite. Shaking the reduced pigment in air proved to be an unsatisfactory method for returning the reduced pigment to the oxidized, colored state
5854591
Terrinha, António M. (National Laboratory for Veterinary Research, Lisbon, Portugal), José D. Vigário, José L. Nunes Petisca, J. Moura Nunes, and Armando L. Bastos. Autoradiographic study on sheeppox virus infection. J. Bacteriol. 90:1703-1709. 1965.-An autoradiographic study of sheep embryo cell cultures infected with sheeppox virus showed that viral deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) synthesis starts at 10 to 11 hr after infection. The number of cells which supported viral DNA synthesis increased until 22 to 23 hr. The extent of cytoplasmic continuity between cells might permit the cell-to-cell transfer of mature virus or perhaps viral DNA. There is evidence of an inhibitory action on cellular DNA synthesis in cells which supported viral DNA synthesis, but, in all cellular populations infected, a small proportion of cells was encountered which supported viral DNA synthesis in compartment S. No evidence for cellular division of sheeppox virus-infected cells has been found. Enzymatic digestion by deoxyribonuclease combined with autoradiography provided an indirect demonstration of the time at which the first viral structural proteins were found to be synthesized, that is, 18 hr after infection. A progressive increase in synthesis of viral structural proteins was demonstrated. Virus maturation occurred within the cells in the cytoplasm, predominantly in the same sites as viral DNA synthesis
5854592
Anderson, J. I. W. (Northeast Shellfish Sanitation Research Center, Narragansett, R.I.), and W. P. Heffernan. Isolation and characterization of filterable marine bacteria. J. Bacteriol 90:1713-1718. 1965.-By a process of double filtration of seawater, first through a membrane filter with a pore diameter of 0.45 mu and then through a membrane filter with a pore diameter of 0.22 mu, it was possible to isolate on the surface of the latter membrane a group of marine organisms not usually encountered by conventional techniques of pour plates or one-stage filtration. Many of the isolates could not be identified, but the largest single group belonged to the genus Spirillum; other isolates were placed in the genera Leucothrix, Flavobacterium, Cytophaga, and Vibrio. A group of four organisms which was not identified was characterized by the formation of large, club-shaped cells, 20 to 30 mu long. Of the 25 strains studied in detail, 22 required seawater for growth and 8 retained their filterable property after cultivation. No filterable bacteria were isolated from terrestrial samples
5854593
Mergenhagen, Stephan E. (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md.). Polysaccharide-lipid complexes from Veillonella parvula. J. Bacteriol. 90:1730-1734. 1965.-A strain of Veillonella parvula (V2) elaborates an extracellular slime when grown in a nutrient medium containing only dialyzable components. Deproteinization with chloroform-butanol of ethyl alcohol-precipitated material from the supernatant culture fluid leads to the isolation of a water-soluble lipopolysaccharide (LPS1). Another component (LPS2), showing similarity in biological and immunological properties to the endotoxic antigen (LPC) isolated from whole cells, was extracted with phenol from the insoluble emulsion remaining after chloroform-butanol extraction of slime. Analysis of polysaccharides by thin-layer chromatography demonstrated the presence of glucose and galactose in LPS1 and glucose, glucosamine, galactosamine, and a methyl pentose in LPC. LPS1 failed to give a positive epinephrine skin test after intravenous injection in rabbits and failed to kill pertussis-sensitized mice, whereas LPS2 and LPC were active in both of these bioassays. Both lipopolysaccharides (LPS1 and LPC) exhibited type-specific haptenic activity in hemagglutination tests with numerous anti-Veillonella rabbit sera. LPS1 was found in these tests to be unrelated to a heterologous strain of Veillonella possessing a related somatic antigen. These experiments reveal the presence of two chemically and immunologically distinguishable polysaccharide-lipid complexes in this strain of V. parvula
5854594
Tanaka, H. (The Rockefeller University, New York, N.Y.), W. T. Hall, J. B. Sheffield, and D. H. Moore. Fine structure of Haemobartonella muris as compared with Eperythrozoon coccoides and Mycoplasma pulmonis. J. Bacteriol. 90:1735-1749. 1965.-Thin sections of filterable hemolytic anemia agent of rat, now identified as Haemobartonella muris, revealed (i) that the agent is spherical or ellipsoidal and 350 to 700 mmu in size, (ii) that it has a single limiting membrane enclosing granules and some filaments (neither cell wall nor nucleoid was found), and (iii) that it is found preferentially at the surface and sometimes within the cytoplasmic vacuoles of erythrocytes in the circulating blood and bone marrow, and multiplies there through binary fission. No specific structure suggestive of motility was found. From the morphological point of view, Eperythrozoon coccoides was found to be very similar to H. muris, whereas Mycoplasma pulmonis, also covered with a single limiting membrane, differs in its pleomorphism and multiplication. These and some other microorganisms taxonomically between bacteria and viruses were compared morphologically, and their possible classification is discussed
5855505
The late after-potential that follows trains of impulses in frog muscle fibers is virtually absent when most of the intracellular potassium is replaced by rubidium and the muscle is immersed in rubidium-containing Ringer's fluid. Its amplitude is also reduced in freshly dissected, potassium-containing muscle fibers that are immersed directly in Rb-Ringer's fluid. These findings are discussed in terms of the model for muscle membrane of Adrian and Freygang (1962 a, b) and in relation to the report of Adrian (1964) that Rb-containing muscle fibers do not exhibit the variations in potassium permeability as a function of membrane potential that are found in fibers with normal intracellular potassium concentration immersed in Ringer's fluid
5855506
A method has been developed for measuring K influx into the epithelial cells of frog skin from the inside solution. Diffusion delay in the connective tissue has been taken into account. Ninety-four per cent of skin K was found to exchange with K(42) in the inside solution with a single time constant. K influx showed saturation with increasing K concentration, was not altered by imposing a potential difference of +/-200 mv across the skin, and was inhibited by dinitrophenol, fluoroacetate, and ouabain. Relatively low concentrations of dinitrophenol (5 x 10(-5)M) and fluoroacetate (10(-10)M) had no effect on k influx but caused a 40 per cent decrease in net Na flux. There was no correlation between the rate of K uptake at the "inner barrier" and the rate of net Na transport. Reduction of net Na transport by lowering Na concentration in the outside solution caused little change in K uptake. These observations indicate that there is not a significant Na-K exchange involved in active transport of Na across the skin. K influx was found, however, to require Na in the inside bathing solution
5855507
Potential differences between normal nodes of Ranvier (single fiber from the sciatic nerve of the frog, air-gap method) and a node exposed to 1 to 2.5 x 10(-6) gm veratridine per ml were measured. Negative after-potentials occurred immediately after application of the alkaloid when spike configuration and resting potential were virtually unchanged. The after-potentials decreased in magnitude and their time constant increased as the resting membrane was depolarized either by outward currents or by a train of impulses. Increase of (Na)(o) markedly increased the amplitude of the after-potential. After prolonged application of veratridine or with higher concentrations, a large slow depolarization (rate of potential change about 7 mv per second) could be triggered by a train of impulses or even a single spike. This depolarization could promptly be terminated by withdrawing Na. It is concluded that, once the nodal membrane has become permeable to Na (as during a spike), veratridine prevents the normal return of P(Na) to its resting value
5855508
Precise evaluation of permeability of biological tissues is often prevented by imprecise knowledge of operative forces. This problem has been approached by analysis of fluxes of isotopic species applied to opposite surfaces of a membrane. A simple and rather general flux ratio equation has been derived which may permit evaluation of membrane permeability, even without knowledge of forces, or of the nature of active transport processes. Permeability as thus defined should be insensitive to coupled flows, either of other species or of metabolism. In appropriate circumstances application of the equation may permit evaluation of the contributions of the various processes to the transport of the examined species. Composite series membranes would be expected to obey the unmodified general equation. Heterogeneous parallel pathways would alter the relation in a predictable manner. The effect of isotope interaction is specifically incorporated. The formulation is applied to consideration of energetics of active transport
5855509
The relationship between retinula and eccentric cells in the lateral eye of Limulus polyphemus was studied using a double electrode technique which permitted simultaneous recording of light-initiated responses in two sense cells and the labeling of the cells for subsequent histological examination and identification. The following results were obtained: (a) light-initiated slow responses with and without superimposed spike potentials were recorded from retinula cells and from eccentric cells (only one eccentric cell yielded responses without superimposed spike potentials); (b) spike potentials recorded in different cells within the same ommatidium were always synchronous; (c) a complete absence of spike potentials was observed in two experiments in which no eccentric cells could be found in the ommatidia containing the labeled retinula cells; (d) the greatest differences in the characteristics of responses recorded simultaneously occurred in those recorded from retinula-eccentric combinations. The results indicate that there is only one source of spike potential activity within an ommatidium (presumably the eccentric cell) and that the light-initiated response of retinula cells may be independent of the eccentric cell response. The suggestion is advanced that the response of the retinula cell may "trigger" the eccentric cell response
5855512
Voltage clamp measurements on squid giant axons show that externally applied puffer fish poison, tetrodotoxin, eliminates only the initial inward current component of spike electrogenesis and does not affect the subsequent outward current. The selective effect on Na activation, which is reversible, confirms the view that the movements of Na and K during spike electrogenesis occur at structurally different sites on the membrane. Spike electrogenesis is also blocked when tetrodotoxin is injected into the axon, but the interior of the membrane appears to be somewhat less sensitive to the poison. Differences in reactivity of various electrogenic membrane components to tetrodotoxin are discussed as signifying differences in chemical structures
5856997
5,5-Dimethyl-2,4-oxazolidinedinedione, a substance commonly used to estimate intracellular pH, moves against both a concentration gradient and a hydrogen-ion gradient in the everted gut sac. Furthermore, the value of the flux ratio for this substance under conditions of zero electrochemical potential across the bowel wall unequivocally demonstrates active transport
5856998
Activity of bacteriophage T4 neutralizing antiserums obtained 8 days after a primary immunization of rabbits with purified phage T4 is due to antibodies of the 19S (IgM) type. This neutralizing activity could be partially inhibited by treatment with excess antiserum directed against the a-locus group allotypic specificity carried by the whole rabbit serum
5856999
Transections of the brain of rabbit reveal that electroencephalographic arousal produced by injections of adrenaline takes place at the midbrain level, while mescaline and 3,4-dimethoxyphenylethylamine induce such arousal lower in the brainstem, at the medullary level
5857000
The mosquito Anopheles balabacensis balabacensis has been identified as a natural vector of at least two species of simian malaria in the monsoon forests of the northern Malay States. This mosquito is also a serious vector of human malaria from Viet Nam to northern Malaya. This is the first report of a mosquito which transmits both human and simian malaria in nature
5857001
Antelope ground squirrels (Citellus leucurus) were able, after conditioning, to respond correctly to a port illuminated with light at a wavelength of 460 nanometers. This color randomly presented at one of two positions, was correctly selected in reference to a second port illuminated with light at 500, 520, 569, and 600 nanometers, or with white light of varying intensity. Luminosity was not a factor in the discrimination
5857250
Two strains of bacteria that produce slender appendages (pseudostalks) from their lateral surfaces were studied using the electron microscope. The pseudostalks were shown to be extensions of the cytoplasm and peripheral membranes of the cell proper. Both strains of bacteria produce holdfasts at the poles of the cells by the means of which attachment can take place. The pseudostalks are not involved in the attachment of cells. No specialized intracytoplasmic structures are present at the point of juncture of pseudostalk and cell. A discussion of the possible functions of the pseudostalks, based on the electron microscope findings, is presented
5857251
(1) Chloroplast lamellae, like many other membranes, are composed of 90-A subunits. (2) The way in which the 90-A units associate with one another determines the quantasome structures of the membrane. There appear to be four 90-A subunits per quantasome in the most highly organized arrays. In at least some cases, the way in which the subunits bind one to another is under environmental control. (3) Extraction experiments are consistent with a model in which the membrane lipid surrounds the protein framework of the membrane
5857252
An electron microscopic study of the fine blood vessels in the skin and muscle of 25 newborn rats (sucklings, and therefore subject to physiologic lipemia) has shown that blood-borne lipid particles may leave the lumen of these vessels by two pathways, intercellular and intracellular. (a) An intercellular pathway: Some capillaries, venous capillaries and venules contain intramural, extracellular deposits of lipid which is presumably hematogenous. In some animals these deposits are quite numerous; available evidence suggests that they are a consequence of intercellular gaps, too small or too transient to be observed except in rare instances. Plasma apparently escapes through these gaps and filters across the basement membrane, while lipid particles are retained, usually in sufficient number to fill the small defect; some lipid particles are then taken up by endothelial cells and pericytes, while a few escape and are incorporated into free phagocytes. These focal defects, though few in number, may explain the apparent incapacity of blood vessels of newborn rats to leak any further after a local injection of histamine. Discontinuities in the endothelium were found also in the renal glomerulus, sometimes accompanied by extensive interstitial accumulations of lipid particles. Similar intercellular gaps are known to exist in other types of immature endothelia. (b) An intracellular pathway: This is best demonstrated in the capillaries, venous capillaries and venules which supply the developing subcutaneous adipose tissue. Here the lipid particles adhere in large numbers to the endothelial surface; the morphologic evidence suggests that they are also taken up into the endothelium through phagocytosis by "flaps," or into pockets or crevices. The lipid is apparently metabolized in the vascular wall; some is found in the multivesicular bodies. There was no evidence of active transport by vesicles or vacuoles. Neither pathway was demonstrable in the adult
5857253
The cell population kinetics of excised, cultured pea roots was studied with the use of tritiated thymidine and colchicine to determine (1) the influence of excision, (2) the influence of sucrose concentration, (3) the average mitotic cycle duration, and (4) the duration of mitosis and the G(1), S, and G(2) periods of interphase.(1) The results indicate that the process of excision causes a drop in the frequency of mitotic figures when performed either at the beginning of the culture period or after 100 hours in culture. This initial decrease in frequency of cell division is independent of sucrose concentration, but the subsequent rise in frequency of division, after 12 hours in culture, is dependent upon sucrose concentration. Two per cent sucrose maintains the shortest mitotic cycle duration. The use of colchicine indicated an average cycle duration of 20 hours, whereas the use of tritiated thymidine produced an average cycle duration of 17 hours
5857254
Freshly prepared hemoglobin solutions were successively irradiated up to five times with 1 MW (monochromatic wavelength) of green (530 mmicro) laser power. Oxygenated hemoglobin showed no detectable change, but the spectral absorption of reduced hemoglobin showed a shift toward the characteristic curve for the oxygenated form. Intact human erythrocytes exposed to a power density of 110 MW/cm(2) of green laser radiation showed no appreciable change in diameter or mass, but they became transparent to a wavelength range from 400 to 600 mmicro. A similar power density from a ruby laser failed to produce this bleaching effect. This response in the erythrocyte demonstrates a principle which suggests the laser as a tool for cell research: specific molecular components within a cell may be selectively altered by laser irradiation when an appropriate wavelength and a suitable power density are applied
5857255
The fine structure of the longitudinal layer of the tunica muscularis of the mouse jejunum was studied in various stages of mechanically stimulated contraction. The relaxed cell is long and narrow with smooth cytoplasmic and nuclear contours. As contraction progresses, the cell becomes ellipsoid and its borders exhibit invaginations at the points of myofilamentous attachment to the plasma membrane and vesicle-containing projections of the intervening membrane. These changes are interpreted as representing the deforming forces applied by the myofilaments to the plasma membrane. The nucleus of the contracted cell is shortened and widened, with convolution of its limiting membranes. This alteration, as well as progressive changes in the alignment of cytoplasmic organelles, is thought to be due to forces exerted on the internal structure of the cell by the contractile elements. The myofilaments form a network of oriented bundles during contraction. Aggregates of filaments of two different diameters are noted. The two sizes of filaments intermingle only in small areas of increased density. These dense areas increase in length and number during contraction. A model of the functional organization of the cell is proposed
5857256
Electron microscopic evidence is presented that the early response to denervation ("simple atrophy") of the semitendinosus m. of the frog is characterized by a greater prominence of the sarcoplasmic reticulum and by the presence, in the interfibrillar spaces, of mitochondria which are more numerous and smaller than in normal muscle. In contrast with the dynamic changes of the sarcoplasmic structural components, the myofibrils showed a progressive decrease in diameter after denervation and throughout the period studied. By carrying out tissue fractionation experiments, the yield of microsome-protein was found significantly greater in the denervated muscles, as compared with the contralateral controls, in this initial stage. Under the conditions attending the overdevelopment of the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), denervated semitendinosus m. incorporated valine-C(14) into proteins more actively than the control pairs. The denervated muscles also showed an increase in the number of freely scattered and membrane-bound ribosomes and of polyribosomes, suggesting a more active synthesis of the SR membranes. Pronounced atrophy of the myofibrils, disorganization of the SR, and an increased number of ribonucleoprotein particles lying in the enlarged interfibrillar spaces were the main ultrastructural features of "degenerative atrophy" in frog muscle in the late periods after denervation. The probably adaptive character of the early changes occurring on denervation of frog muscle is discussed
5857257
A new type of extracellular fibril is described in the dermis of Bufo marinus, Rana pipiens, and Amblystoma punctatum. It is restricted in distribution to the dermal micropapillae and the region immediately below them in the stratum spongiosum. The fibrils (diameter = 200 to 750 A) are lateral aggregates of fine filaments and have a unique banding pattern characterized by absence of recognizable periodicity and by polarization in respect to the basement membrane. Their distal(1) ends are anchored in the basement membrane, and their proximal ends converge in knots located in the middle region of the micropapillae. These anchoring fibrils seem to secure the minute outfoldings of the basement membrane along the dermal-epidermal junction. Comparable, but less frequent, fibrils are also encountered along the proximal aspect of the basement membrane in the skin, lingual mucosa, and mucosa of the gastric fundus in the rat
5857261
This study was undertaken to determine whether glycerol-extracted rabbit psoas muscle fibers can develop tension and shorten after being stretched to such a length that the primary and secondary filaments no longer overlap. A method was devised to measure the initial sarcomere length and the ATP-induced isotonic shortening in prestretched isolated fibers subjected to a small preload (0.02 to 0.15 P(0)). At all degrees of stretch, the fiber was able to shorten (60 to 75 per cent): to a sarcomere length of 0.7 micro when the initial length was 3.7 micro or less, and to an increasing length of 0.9 to 1.8 micro with increasing initial sarcomere length (3.8 to 4.4 micro). At sarcomere lengths of 3.8 to 4.5 micro, overlap of filaments was lost, as verified by electron microscopy. The variation in sarcomere length within individual fibers has been assessed by both light and electron microscopic measurements. In fibers up to 10 mm in length the stretch was evenly distributed along the fiber, and with sarcomere spacings greater than 4 micro there was only a slight chance of finding sarcomeres with filament overlap. These observations are in apparent contradiction to the assumption that an overlap of A and I filaments is necessary for tension generation and shortening
5857262
Glycerol-extracted rabbit psoas muscle fibers were examined by electron microscopy both before and after ATP-induced isotonic shortening. Ultrastructural changes were correlated with the initial sarcomere length and the degree of shortening. The ultrastructural appearance of the resting fiber at rest length was identical with that described by H. E. Huxley and Hanson. At sarcomere lengths greater than 3.7 to 3.8 micro, the A and I filaments were detached and separated by a gap. The presence of "gap" filaments was confirmed, and evidence is presented which indicates that these filaments form connections between the ends of the A and I filaments. Shortening from initial sarcomere lengths at which the filaments overlapped took place through sliding of the filaments. If shortening was initiated from sarcomere lengths at which there was a gap, a narrowing of the I band was brought about by a curling of the I filaments at the boundary between the A and I bands. No evidence could be found that the I filaments moved into the A band
5858024
The equations of electrostatics are applied to the adsorption of gases on molecular sieves; separations on sieves are caused not by the size of molecules but by electrostatic forces between the gases and the strong electric fields of the sieves. Electrostatic interactions can also explain the phenomenon of general anesthesia
5858025
Lowering of pH from 7.40 to 6.60 significantly decreased the rate of glycerol formation in fat cells incubated with either 1-norepinephrine or theophylline. When these cells were incubated with both 1-norepinephrine and theophylline, the glycerol formation proceeded at maximal rate and was quite similar at pH 7.40 and 6.60. These results indicate that the inhibitory effect of acidosis on the lipolytic action of 1-norepinephrine is exerted on the process which activates lipase
5858026
Hydroxyurea has a differential lethal effect on cultured Chinesehamster cells that are at different stages in their cell cycle. Cells synthesizing DNA at the time of exposure to the drug are lethally damaged. Cells in the phase of growth preceding DNA synthesis (G(1)) survive but are prevented from beginning DNA synthesis. Cells in the phase after DNA synthesis (G(2)) survive and appear to progress until just before the beginning of the next period of DNA synthesis. This differential lethal and inhibitory effect of hydroxyurea may be useful for synchronizing asynchronous cell populations and explaining effects of the drug in human therapy
5858027
During an examination of Ammi visnaga Lam. suspension cultures for the biosynthesis of furanochromones and related medicinal compounds, visnagin was isolated in crystalline form and identified. Thus, certain medicinally important secondary plant metabolites may be produced in appreciable amounts by plant tissue cultures
5858028
Human platelets and bovine lens fibers contain lactate dehydrogenase-3 (LDH-3) as the predominant isozyme but only very faint traces of LDH-5. Since the platelets and lens fibers, like mature human erythrocytes, lack a nucleus, the results strengthen the case for a previously developed association between LDH-5 and the cell nucleus. These three cell types are mainly anaerobic, and therefore their isozyme patterns are incompatible with the theory that anaerobic tissues exhibit predominantly LDH-5 and aerobic tissues mainly LDH-1
5858029
Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase specific to the erythrocytes of each of two wild hares found in Europe was discerned by starch-gel electrophoresis at pH 7.0 and pH 8.6. The single, sharp band of the dehydrogenase of Lepus europaeus was faster than that of L. timidus, at both pH levels. The sex-linkage of this enzyme was tested through reciprocal hybrids between the two species. Each male hybrid had a single band of enzyme identical with that of its mother, while both parental types of this enzyme coexisted in female hybrids. Thus, sex-linkage of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase has been suggested not only in man and in the family Equidae, but now in the family Leporidae of placental mammals as well
5858030
Analysis of the edible portion of vegetables and samples of green leaf tobacco failed to show polonium-210. The cured samples of leaf tobacco and the soils that were analyzed all contained small quantities of the element. Muck soils contained three times as much Po(210) as did mineral soils. Solutions used commonly to extract "available" forms of many mineral elements failed to extract a detectable amount of Po(2l0). Indications are that Po(210) or its radioactive precursors are not taken up from the soil directly by plant roots but rather by sorption in dead, moist plant materials at the atmosphere-plant interface
5858031
Weakly electric fish of the African family Mormyridae emit pulses at variable intervals with a distribution skewed toward longer intervals. Fourteen specimens of the genera Mormyrops, Gnathonemus, and Marcusenius were classically conditioned to increase briefly their discharge frequency. The unconditioned stimulus was electric shock and the conditioned stimulus was light. These results are novel in that the overt conditioned response involves neither secretion nor movement
5858032
A captive vea lion (Zalophus californianus) which had never before produced clicking sounds in the laboratory was first conditioned to vocalize in air and subsequently learned to emit underwater clicks. clicking was brought under control by differential reinforcement procedures. Vocalization as an indicator response may be useful in the comparative study of discriminative behavior
5858033
Eight young male subjects were permitted to sleep only 3 hours out of each 24 for 8 days. Electroencephalographic recordings were made during the 3-hour period of sleep. There was an increase in the amount of deep sleep (stage 4) during this period. On a recovery night, the first 6 hours revealed a significant increase in deep sleep, and beyond this period there was a sharp increase in stage 1-rapid eye movement sleep
5859016
Aldehyde-fixed rat tissues were variously dehydrated and impregnated in water-miscible 2-hydroxypropyl methacrylate (HPMA) containing 3 to 20 per cent water and 0.1 per cent alpha,alpha-azobisisobutyronitrile as catalyst for subsequent polymerization with ultraviolet light. Heat polymerization was also effective. Blocks of embedded tissue readily gave ultrathin sections, which required staining by uranyl acetate and/or lead stains to give adequate contrast for electron microscopy. The ultrastructure of pancreas, kidney, muscle, and intestine was well preserved by aldehyde fixation alone. Use of postfixation in osmium tetroxide or direct osmium tetroxide fixation was unsatisfactory. The fine structure of aldehyde-fixed liver from fasted rats was well preserved, whereas that from normal rats showed considerable disorganization and collapse, apparently because of extraction of glycogen during the embedding procedure. Enzymatic extraction of proteins by pepsin and of ribonucleic acid by ribonuclease after either formaldehyde or glutaraldehyde fixation was rapidly effected by direct treatment of ultrathin sections with solutions of the enzymes. In contrast, no digestion of chromatin by deoxyribonuclease could be detected. In spite of this present limitation, HPMA appears to have several advantages over earlier water-miscible embedding media for electron microscopy and to be particularly suitable for ultrastructural cytochemistry
5859017
Actively growing and dormant roots of Tradescantia paludosa were exposed to x-rays to compare the radiosensitivity of an actively proliferating tissue with that of one which is not active but is potentially proliferative. The level of effect was ascertained by the degree of change in the rate of root growth 4 days after exposure. Cell population kinetics were measured in control and in irradiated roots to determine whether or not a change was produced either in the number of proliferating cells or in the mitotic cycle duration which was sufficient to explain the altered rate of root growth. Nuclear volumes were also measured to provide an estimate of the relative total target size in actively growing vs. dormant roots. Tritiated thymidine was used to measure the cycle duration and the proportion of cells synthesizing DNA. The results showed that 184 and 305 r respectively were required to reduce the linear root growth rate to 37 per cent of that of the control for actively growing and dormant roots. Mitotic cycle duration, measured 4 days after x-ray exposure, was the same as in the control. The number of proliferating cells, however, was reduced. The rate of cell production in the irradiated roots was reduced to approximately one-half that of the controls. The average nuclear volumes of active and dormant roots were 733 and 491 micro(3) respectively; thus the difference in the number of roentgens required to reduce growth to 37 per cent of that of the control can be attributed to the different average nuclear volumes. Therefore, the experiments suggest that part if not most of the differences in sensitivity between an actively dividing and an essentially non-dividing meristematic cell population resides in their different average nuclear volumes. Thus the law of Bergonie and Tribondeau needs to be reinterpreted, since the basic reason for the differences is secondary to whether or not the meristematic cells are proliferating
5859018
The incorporation of tritiated thymidine into the DNA of erythroblasts, primitive ependymal cells, and mesenchymal cells of 11-day mouse embryos was studied by radioautography at different times between 25 minutes and 18 hours after injection intraperitoneally. There was no labeling of mitotic figures until 1 hour after injection. Following this, mitotic figures were labeled for about 5.5 hours in primitive ependymal cells and mesenchymal cells, and for a longer period in erythroblasts. The percentage of the labeled primitive ependymal cells at various times after injection indicate a periodic migration into and out of the mitotic zone. The cell generation cycle of primitive ependymal cells and mesenchymal cells is similar to some kinds of adult cells. The cycle of the erythroblasts is more like that of the cells of aging mice
5859019
An acute effect of antigens on the nuclear histones of mouse thymocytes was investigated by means of cytophotometric measurements of thymocytes stained with ammoniacal-silver (A-S) and with fast green (FG). In addition, the DNA content was measured in terms of Feulgen staining. In terms of such staining it appeared that nuclei of control thymocytes contain a greater amount of nuclear histones and a higher histone/DNA ratio than do renal cell nuclei from the same animal. Within 1 hour after the injection of antigen the thymocyte nuclei appear to lose approximately 32 per cent and 20 per cent, respectively, of A-S and FG stainable nuclear proteins, while the Feulgen staining remains unchanged. Since the renal cell nuclei show no antigen-induced change in histone staining, the histone staining and histone/DNA ratios were found to be similar in the thymocytes and renal cells of the antigen-injected mice. The antigen-induced loss of thymocyte histones was also found to be associated with a change in the color of the A-S staining, from yellowish brown to black. This and other findings suggest that thymocyte nuclei contain an antigen-labile, lysine-rich histone. The implication of these observations in regard to the phenomenon of immunological competence is discussed and the need for continued investigation indicated
5859020
The fine structure of the transitional epithelium of rat ureter has been studied in thin sections with the electron microscope, including some stained cytochemically to show nucleoside triphosphatase activity. The epithelium is three to four cells deep with cuboidal or columnar basal cells, intermediate cells, and superficial squamous cells. The basal cells are attached by half desmosomes, or attachment plates, on their basal membranes to a basement membrane which separates the epithelium from the lamina propria. Fine extracellular fibres, ca. 100 A in diameter, are to be found in the connective tissue layer immediately below the basement membrane of this epithelium. The plasma membranes of the basal and intermediate cells and the lateral and basal membranes of the squamous cells are deeply interdigitated, and nucleoside triphosphatase activity is associated with them. All the cells have a dense feltwork of tonofilaments which ramify throughout the cytoplasm. The existence of junctional complexes, comprising a zonula occludens, zonula adhaerens, and macula adhaerens or desmosome, between the lateral borders of the squamous cells is reported. It is suggested that this complex is the major obstacle to the free flow of water from the extracellular spaces into the hypertonic urine. The free luminal surface of the squamous cells and many cytoplasmic vesicles in these cells are bounded by an unusually thick plasma membrane. The three leaflets of this unit membrane are asymmetric, with the outer one about twice as thick as the innermost one. The vesicles and the plasma membrane maintain angular conformations which suggest the membrane to be unusually rigid. No nucleoside triphosphatase activity is associated with this membrane. Arguments are presented to support a suggestion that this thick plasma membrane is the morphological site of a passive permeability barrier to water flow across the cells, and that keratin may be included in the membrane structure. The possible origin of the thick plasma membrane in the Golgi complex is discussed. Bodies with heterogeneous contents, including characteristic hexagonally packed stacks of thick membranes, are described. It is suggested that these are "disposal units" for old or surplus thick membrane. A cell type is described, which forms only 0.1 to 0.5 per cent of the total cell population and contains bundles of tubular fibres or crystallites. Their origin and function are not known
5859023
Both roots of the olivo-cochlear nerve bundle to one ear were transected in the brain stems of 12 chinchillas. The animals were sacrificed at times ranging from 2 to 35 days after surgery. The normal olivo-cochlear terminals on the external hair cells in the cochleas of the control ears contained many mitochondria and small vesicles of constant size. The earliest evidence for degeneration was the presence of fine 100 A filaments in the proximal parts of the terminals. These were visible at 2 days. Animals sacrificed at later times showed a greater number of filaments and fewer vesicles, but few mitochondrial changes. After 1 week, disintegration of the terminals was more prominent. A few terminals showed mitochondrial swelling and lysis of the plasma membrane but few or no filaments within the first week. These latter terminals were interpreted as representing a more rapid process of disintegration than those terminals characterized by numerous filaments and seemingly unchanged mitochondria
5859730
A technique for electrophoretic analysis of the hemoglobin mixtures from single erythrocytes has been developed. Hemoglobin mixtures were separated into their constituents, A(2), A, C, S, and J, at least qualitatively
5859731
An alcoholic extract of Solanum dulcamara L., a plant widely used in folk medicine for treating cancers and warts, shows tumor-inhibitory activity against Sarcoma 180 in mice. Systematic fractionation of the extract has led to isolation and characterization of beta-solamarine as an active principle
5859732
Each retinal cone cell of the female contains a sex-chromatin body not present in coinparable material from the male. Therefore the lack of detectable "patch" formation in female heterozygotes for red color-blindness (as expected from the X-inactivation hypothesis) cannot be attributed to failure of Barr-body formation
5859733
When succinate is used to protect rats against the toxicity of oxygen at high pressure, 100 percent survive, with normal or above normal concentrations of adenosine triphosphate being present in the cerebral hemisphere, liver, and kidney. In contrast, 90 percent of the nonprotected animals died during exposure. In corresponding tissues of surviving nonprotected animals adenosine triphosphate concentrations are markedly reduced
5859922
The uptake, intracellular transport, and secretion of protein by guinea pig wound fibroblasts was studied by electron microscope radioautography using L-proline-3,4-H(3) as a tracer. Experiments were performed to determine the curve of concentration of free amino acid in the blood after intraperitoneal administration of the labeled proline. Radioautographs were quantitatively analyzed and the concentration of isotope, in grains per unit area, was determined for the following cellular and extracellular compartments: ergastoplasm, Golgi complex, peripheral cytoplasmic structures, and collagen. The concentration of label, expressed as number of grains per unit area of each subcellular system, reveals the period during which each cellular compartment is maximally labeled, and presents a clearer picture of the passage of the label through each of these compartments. The data demonstrate appearance of the label at maximum concentration in the ergastoplasm 15 minutes after injection, and this compartment remains maximally labeled for 2 hours. In the Golgi complex, concentration is not maximal until 60 minutes after injection of isotope, and appears to decrease before or at about the same rate as that of the ergastoplasm. The present experiment is consistent with previous light microscope radioautographic studies, and no storage phase was found in the fibroblasts. The findings are not simply consistent with a direct precursor-product relationship between the contents of the ergastoplasm and those of the Golgi complex. Morphologic observations of regions in the fibroblast interpretable as possible sites of communication between the ergastoplasm and the extracellular space, together with the kinetic studies, permit the suggestion of an alternate pathway of passage of at least some of the synthesized protein directly from the ergastoplasmic cisternae to the cell exterior
5859923
The three chief physicochemical theories of the oxygen-hemoglobin equilibrium in vogue 40 years ago still influence current thought on the problem. Although the Hill theory lost its fundamental basis some 40 years ago, the famous empiric equation to which it gave rise is still much used, as a useful phenomenological expression, only involving two disposable constants. The Haldane theory, of which a difference in aggregation of oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin was a fundamental feature, lay for many years dormant but has recently had an astonishing reawakening through the work on lamprey hemoglobin, which clearly reveals such differences in aggregation. Lamprey hemoglobin might thus be called a "Haldane type" hemoglobin. Adair's four-stage intermediate compound theory still seems applicable in the case of hemoglobins such as those of sheep, whose tetramer molecules do not tend to dissociate into dimers, and which might therefore be called "Adair type" hemoglobins. Horse and human hemoglobins appear to reveal both "Haldane" and "Adair" behaviour. The effects of pH, temperature, and protein concentration on the oxygen-equilibrium of sheep hemoglobin are summarised, and it is shown that, although the equilibrium curves are often isomorphous over their middle range, intensive work at the top and bottom of the curves reveals considerable differences in the relative effects of these factors on the several equilibrium constants of Adair's four intermediate equations. In the last section an account is given of preliminary experimental attempts to interpret the oxygen- and carbon monoxide-equilibrium curves of whole human blood, under physiological conditions in terms of the Adair intermediate compound hypothesis
5859925
SEVERAL TOPICS ARE DEALT WITH IN DISCUSSING THE REACTIONS OF MOLECULAR OXYGEN, BUT A COMMON GOAL IS PURSUED IN EACH: to try to understand the reactions in terms of the fundamental properties of the oxygen molecule, and of the other reactants. The paper first describes the electronic structure of oxygen and of two low-lying electronically excited states. Concern with the low-lying electronically excited states is no longer the sole property of spectroscopists; recently, evidence has been presented for the participation of such activated molecules in chemical reactions. The chemistry of oxygen is dominated by the fact that the molecule in the ground state has two unpaired electrons, whereas the products of oxidation in many important reactions have zero spin. In its reactions with transition metal ions the restrictions imposed by the spin state of the oxygen molecule are easily circumvented. A number of reactions of oxygen with metal ions have been studied in considerable detail; conclusions on basic aspects of the reaction mechanism are outlined. Among the most interesting reactions of oxygen are those in which it is reversibly absorbed by reducing agents. Reversible absorption to form a peroxide in the bound state is possible; some of the conditions which must be fulfilled by a reducing system to qualify as storing oxygen in this way are reasonably well understood and are here enunciated. Little has been done on the formation of oxygen from water; some factors involved in this process are discussed
5859927
The nuclear reactions occurring in the cores of stars which are believed to produce the element oxygen are first described. Evidence for the absence of free oxygen in the early atmosphere of the earth is reviewed. Mechanisms of creation of atmospheric oxygen by photochemical processes are then discussed in detail. Uncertainty regarding the rate of diffusion of water vapor through the cold trap at 70 km altitude in calculating the rate of the photochemical production of oxygen is avoided by using data for the concentration of hydrogen atoms at 90 km obtained from the Meinel OH absorption bands. It is estimated that the present atmospheric oxygen content could have been produced five to ten times during the earth's history. It is shown that the isotopic composition of atmospheric oxygen is not that of photosynthetic oxygen. The fractionation of oxygen isotopes by organic respiration and oxidation occurs in a direction to enhance the O(18) content of the atmosphere and compensates for the O(18) dilution resulting from photosynthetic oxygen. Thus, an oxygen isotope cycle exists in nature
5861698
A recently developed method of determining the number and size of particles suspended in a conducting solution is to pump the suspension through a small orifice having an immersed electrode on each side to supply electrical current. The current changes due to the passage of particles of resistivity different from that of the solution. Theoretical expressions are developed which relate the current change caused by such particles to their volume and shape. It is found that most biological cells may be treated as dielectric particles whose capacitive effects are negligible. Electrolytic tank measurements on models confirm the theoretical development, and electric field plots of model orifices are used to predict the observed pulse shapes. An equivalent circuit of the orifice-electrode system is analyzed and shows that the current pulse may be made conductivity-independent when observed with a zero input impedance amplifier
5861699
A method for the determination of the affinity constants and transfer rate constants of an equalizing selective transport system is derived from the simple transport mechanism, and applied to monosaccharide movements in human red cells. It is similar to the method of Widdas but does not require his approximations. Results are compared with those of the other workers
5861700
Equations describing the movement of sugars during induced uphill transport were derived on the assumption of a simple carrier transport mechanism and subjected to experimental verification. Since there was good agreement between the experimental points and the theoretical curves, no changes in the original postulates were required
5861701
A format has been established for the presentation of steroid structural data which may prove to be useful in the consideration of the possible structural-functional relationships of steroids in biological systems. In preparing this format the detailed structural information for all steroids with known crystallographic structures has been computed and summarized, including bond lengths and angles, non-planarity coefficients, dihedral angles, length of the steroid nucleus, and side group inclinations. From the structural point of view it is interesting to note that (a) bond lengths do not differ significantly from the theoretical values, (b) bond angles do differ significantly from the theoretical values, (c) the non-planarity coefficient of the steroid molecule seems to be a function of the number of angular methyl groups but is unaffected by the presence of one heavy atom, (d) except where aromatic bonds are present the non-planarity coefficients of the two-ring and one-ring subdivisions of the steroid nucleus is 0.25 A, (e) the average non-planarity coefficient of the ring joins and "seat" portions of the chairs is 0.03 A, (f) dihedral angles deviate from the theoretically expected values and also show wide variation in the steroids studied, (g) the length of the steroid nucleus is variable, (h) analysis of side group inclination data must be deferred until more steroid structural information is available. From the biological point of view it is currently impossible to estimate the importance of each steroid structural feature in determining physiological function
5861702
A probabilistic method of analysis of spike trains is presented which provides a complete statistical description of spike sequences and allows the elucidation of some of the properties of the neural interconnections producing the output patterns. The flight motor system of the blowfly, Calliphora terraenovae, is analyzed by this method. Individual motor units show large, non-serially correlated, cycle-to-cycle variations in frequency superimposed upon long term frequency trends. These trends are apparently not generated by averaging the cycle-to-cycle variations in input excitation over a long time period. The different motor units share the same short term input excitation and the excitation causing long term trends. Units in different muscles show no preferred phase or latency relationships; they maintain similar frequencies but their phases drift through all possible values. Frequency control without phase control may be accomplished by shared excitation with a total input frequency many times the output frequency. Units in the same muscle maintain strong phase relationships. Constant phase relationships during variations in frequency may, among other models, be due to reciprocal inhibition or a common linearly rising input. Sensory feedback cannot account for the degree of phase or frequency regulation shown. Thus central patterning of the output sequence is necessary, as in the locust, and the two flight systems can be considered as integradable evolutionary variations
5861703
Aligned deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) molecules exhibit a large absorption anisotropy in the ultraviolet (UV) region of the spectrum (11). Also, the UV action spectra of most bacteria resemble the absorption spectrum of DNA (23), implying that inactivation is directly proportional to the UV absorbed by the bacterial DNA. Hence, the UV sensitivity of aligned uniaxial bacteria might be anisotropic with respect to polarization of the incident UV (17, 19). Any inactivation anisotropy would depend upon the orientation of DNA within the bacteria, as well as upon the alignment of bacteria, and could provide a more sensitive indication of in vivo DNA orientation than is presently available using optical methods (5, 12-16). Using an electric field of 3.5 x 10(6) cycles/second, samples of bacteria of strain LS-301 were aligned in a quartz cell and were irradiated with UV (lambda = 2652 A) polarized perpendicular and parallel to the alignment direction. The resultant survival curves resolved no inactivation anisotropy. This result is interpreted to mean that there was insufficient bacterial DNA alignment to give a detectable anisotropy. The minimum average DNA alignment necessary to have resolved an anisotropy is calculated to be 15 per cent in an axial direction (bases perpendicular to the bacterial axis) or 30 per cent in a radial direction (bases parallel to the bacterial axis)
5861704
The properties of the steady states of a system composed of two solutions separated by a quite general type of ion exchange membrane having fixed sites are derived as functions of the compositions of the solutions and of the difference of electric potential between the two solutions. These properties are evaluated with the restraints that the membrane is solely permeable to cations or anions, no flow of solvent occurs, and the solutions contain no more than two permeant ionic species, which are monovalent. Under the assumptions that the difference of standard chemical potentials of the permeant species and the ratio of their mobilities are constant throughout the membrane, even when the spacing of sites is variable, explicit expressions are derived for the electric current, individual fluxes, and concentration profiles. An unexpectedly simple dependence of these expressions upon distribution of sites is found
5861705
The intrinsic birefringence of macromolecules can be obtained directly from flow birefringence measurements in a solvent whose refractive index matches that of the solute. A small and positive value (approximately 0.01) was found for the helical polypeptide, poly-gamma-benzyl-L-glutamate. The birefringence in solvents of varying index calculated from the Peterlin-Stuart theory using this value of the intrinsic birefringence did not agree with experimental values. Considerations of polydispersity and shear deformation indicated that the discrepancy could not be attributed to these effects. Also it could not be explained in terms of specific solvent effects. It is concluded that optical properties cannot be derived from the continuum model employed by Peterlin and Stuart. Much better agreement was obtained with a helical dipole necklace model
5861706
The constancy of the Moffitt optical rotatory dispersion parameters for polypeptides in different solvents was tested by dispersion measurements on poly-gamma-benzyl-L-glutamate in fifty-five solvents and solvent mixtures. b(0) was not constant but varied linearly with the refractive index of the solvent according to the equation -b(0) = 1701 - 730.3 n(8). This variation could not be explained by changes in configuration of the polypeptide. a(0) also showed a trend with solvent index but the values were widely scattered. lambda(0) did not show a statistically significant dependence on solvent index. The variation in b(0) can be interpreted as an effect of solvent polarizability on the frequencies of optically active transitions
5861707
The Moffitt b(0) parameter of poly-L-glutamic acid in the presumed helical state varied with solvent composition, ranging in magnitude from less than 600 degrees in aqueous solution to 800 degrees in methanol. b(0) was also dependent on temperature throughout the excessable temperature range. The value in aqueous solution is at least 100 degrees smaller than the values for a number of polypeptides in organic solvents, when compared at the same refractive index. Therefore the optical rotatory dispersion data do not provide evidence that the molecule is completely helical in aqueous solution. Since other types of evidence for helical content are not sufficient to establish that PLGA is a complete helix, the helical content of proteins and polypeptides determined by rotatory dispersion measurements should be regarded as uncertain by about 20 per cent
5861708
The AC electrical impedance of frog skin was measured in the range 1 cycle/second to 50 kc/second by injecting current sinusoidally at low current density. The behavior of the skin was found to be linear so the usual concepts of impedance could be validly employed. In the range 1 cycle/second to 5 kc/second, the impedance traces out a circular arc locus with its center off the real axis; thus the skin could be represented by a series resistance and a parallel combination of a conductance and a phase shift element. The phase shift element has an impedance angle of about 80 degrees , current leading voltage, with an equivalent capacitance of about 2 muf/cm(2). The phase shift and the equivalent capacitance were independent of the experimental conditions. The parallel conductance, which was responsible for most of the low frequency impedance, could be subdivided into two approximately equal conductances, one associated with sodium ion current and the other associated with chloride ion current. Both currents were determined mainly by the concentrations of the respective ions bathing the outside of the skin. The response to changes in concentration and the response to CO(2) indicated that the chloride current was passive, but the sodium current appeared to be associated with the active transport mechanism; little sodium could pass through the skin unless associated with active transport
5862399
1. Three random linear copolymers composed of two or three of the amino acids d-tyrosine, d-glutamic acid, d-alanine and d-lysine, and a branched multichain copolymer with a poly-d-lysine backbone and polymeric side chains of d-tyrosine and d-glutamic acid, were found to be non-antigenic in rabbits, by precipitin and passive cutaneous anaphylaxis, and in guinea pigs, by delayed hypersensitivity tests. The corresponding four copolymers of l-amino acids were shown to be antigenic by all the three criteria. 2. No immunological cross-reactions were observed between the polypeptides composed of d-amino acids and the corresponding l-amino acid copolymers. 3. Similarly, an azobenzenearsonic acid conjugate of poly-d-tyrosine was shown to be non-antigenic in guinea pigs, in contrast with an analogous conjugate of poly-l-tyrosine. Animals sensitized with the conjugate of poly-l-tyrosine did not exhibit delayed skin reactions, when cross-tested with the d-conjugate. 4. A linear polymer composed of d-tyrosine, l-glutamic acid and l-alanine was found to be immunogenic and to cross-react with the corresponding polymer composed exclusively of d-amino acids
5862400
1. Livers of ureotelic and uricotelic animals possess the capacity, to a varying extent, of hydrolysing l-arginine and other guanidino compounds. 2. Three different enzymes responsible for such activity have been separated and partially characterized. They are the ;ureotelic' arginase, the ;uricotelic' arginase (both of them specific for l-arginine) and the guanidinobutyrate ureohydrolase (able to hydrolyse beta-guanidinopropionate, gamma-guanidinobutyrate and d-arginine but not l-arginine or guanidinoacetate). 3. The implication of the advent of a ;ureotelic' arginase in the integration of the Krebs-Henseleit cycle is discussed
5862401
1. Correlation between elution volume, V(e), and molecular weight was investigated for gel filtration of proteins of molecular weights ranging from 3500 (glucagon) to 820000 (alpha-crystallin) on Sephadex G-200 columns at pH7.5. 2. Allowing for uncertainties in the molecular weights, the results for most of the carbohydrate-free globular proteins fitted a smooth V(e)-log(mol.wt.) curve. In the lower part of the molecular-weight range the results were similar to those obtained with Sephadex G-75 and G-100 gels. 3. V(e)-log(mol.wt.) curves based on results with the three gels are taken to represent the behaviour of ;typical' globular proteins, and are proposed as standard data for the uniform interpretation of gel-filtration experiments. 4. Some glycoproteins, including gamma-globulins and fibrinogen, do not conform to the standard relationship. The effect of shape and carbohydrate content on the gel-filtration behaviour of proteins is discussed. 5. As predicted by the theoretical studies of other authors, correlation exists between the gel-filtration behaviour and diffusion coefficients of proteins. 6. The lower molecular-weight limit for complete exclusion of typical globular proteins from Sephadex G-200 varies with the swelling of the gel, but is usually &gt;10(6). 7. The concentration-dependent dissociation of glutamate dehydrogenase was observed in experiments with Sephadex G-200, and the sub-unit molecular weight estimated as 250000. The free sub-units readily lose enzymic activity. 8. Recognition of the atypical gel-filtration behaviour of gamma-globulins necessitates an alteration to several molecular weights previously estimated with Sephadex G-100 (Andrews, 1964). New values are: yeast glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase, 128000; bovine intestinal alkaline phosphatase, 130000; Aerobacter aerogenes glycerol dehydrogenase, 140000; milk alkaline phosphatase, 180000
5862402
1. The distributions of (14)C have been compared in the glucose and galactose moieties of lactose obtained from cows' udders perfused with blood containing [1-(14)C]-, [2-(14)C]- and [6-(14)C]-glucose. The (14)C of the glucose moiety was found in the same position as that of the administered glucose, but in the galactose moiety the (14)C from [2-(14)C]glucose was extensively randomized into positions 1 and 3. It is concluded that the glucose moiety arose from free glucose and the galactose moiety from hexose phosphate intermediates and that the latter reflected the randomization occurring through reactions of the pentose cycle. 2. The proportion of the glucose metabolized via the pentose cycle for those cells making lactose was estimated from the distribution of (14)C in the galactose moiety and found to be about 23% in one experiment and 30% in another experiment. 3. The yield and distribution of (14)C were determined in the glycerol of fat from the tissue in experiments with [2-(14)C]- and [6-(14)C]-glucose. There was a greater randomization of (14)C in the glycerol than in C-1, C-2 and C-3 of the galactose moiety of lactose. The ratio of the yield of (14)C in the glycerol from [2-(14)C]glucose to that of [6-(14)C]glucose was very low and from this ratio it was calculated that less than 10% of the glucose was metabolized by the Embden-Meyerhof pathway and approx. 60-70% was converted into lactose. 4. [6-(14)C]Glucose and [6-(3)H]glucose were used to determine whether the (3)H at the C-6 position remained stable during its conversion into glyceride of fat from the tissue. Twenty-seven per cent of the (3)H was labilized during this conversion. Therefore it was not possible to use [2-(14)C]glucose and [6-(3)H]glucose in a single experiment to measure the relative conversion of the C-2 and C-6 positions of glucose to glycerol
5862403
1. Inexpensive scintillation mixtures are described which enable the detection of as little as 40mumuc of (14)C in aqueous solution with an efficiency of counting of over 80%. 2. A rapid method for the counting of alkaline, acidic and neutral aqueous solutions of up to 1ml. volume is described. Ethanol or 2-ethoxyethanol is used as blending agent. 3. The scintillation counting of alkaline solutions is applied to the accurate determination of the specific activity of (14)C-labelled proteins from plant tissues. 4. Attention has been paid to the importance of a standardized washing procedure for the removal of all traces of radioactive material from glassware
5862405
1. A highly dextrorotatory polysaccharide (alpha(D)+232 degrees in n-sodium hydroxide), previously isolated as a fragment of Aspergillus niger cell walls, was prepared from whole mycelium and subjected to partial acid hydrolysis. 2. Fractionation of the hydrolysate on a charcoal column with a linear gradient of ethanol yielded a series of oligosaccharides. The disaccharide member was shown to be nigerose (3-O-alpha-d-glucopyranosyl-alpha-d-glucopyranose), although a small proportion of the disaccharide peak (10%) was present as maltose despite the fact that all the nigeran had been removed from the starting material. 3. The oligosaccharides forming the main peaks from the column were shown to be members of a polymer-homologous series (nigerodextrins) by (a) the relationship between the logarithm of their chromatographic mobility and degree of polymerization, (b) obeying the Freudenberg relationship, and (c) partial acid hydrolysis
5862404
1. The cell-wall composition of Aspergillus niger has been investigated. Analysis shows the presence of six sugars, glucose, galactose, mannose, arabinose, glucosamine and galactosamine, all in the d-configuration, except that a small amount of l-galactose may be present. Sixteen common amino acids are also present. 2. The wall consists chiefly of neutral carbohydrate (73-83%) and hexosamine (9-13%), with smaller amounts of lipid (2-7%), protein (0.5-2.5%) and phosphorus (less than 0.1%). The acetyl content (3.0-3.4%) corresponds to 1.0mole/mole of hexosamine nitrogen. 3. A fractionation of the cell-wall complex was achieved, with or without a preliminary phenol extraction, by using n-sodium hydroxide. Though this caused some degradation, 30-60% of the wall could be solubilized (depending on the preparation). Analyses on several fractions suggest that fractionation procedures bring about some separation of components although not in a clear-cut fashion. 4. Cell-wall preparations were shown to yield a fraction having [alpha](D) approx. +240 degrees (in n-sodium hydroxide) and consisting largely of glucose. This was separated into two subfractions, one of which had [alpha](D)+281 degrees (in n-sodium hydroxide) and had properties resembling the polysaccharide nigeran; the other had [alpha](D) +231 degrees (in n-sodium hydroxide). It is suggested that nigeran is a cell-wall component
5862408
1. The nature and concentration of ubiquinone in six species of Athiorhodaceae have been examined after growth under aerobic and photosynthetic conditions. 2. Increase in ubiquinone concentration during adaptive synthesis of photosynthetic pigments by Rhodopseudomonas spheroides incubated under low-aeration conditions was observed. 3. The nature of the carbon source was found to have a marked effect on ubiquinone, as well as bacteriochlorophyll, concentrations
5862406
1. The total RNA and the RNA present in 27000g pellet (probably composed of chloroplasts, nuclei and mitochondria) and in 27000g supernatant (probably composed of microsomes and soluble proteins) fractions (separated by centrifugation at 27000g of a leaf homogenate prepared in 0.5m-sucrose-0.02m-tris-HCl, pH7.6) of barley leaves were extracted by phenol-sodium lauryl sulphate and their elution profiles on Sephadex G-200 and on ECTEOLA-cellulose anion-exchanger were examined and their nucleotide compositions and the melting curves were determined. 2. The pellet and the supernatant fractions contained respectively about 55% and 20% of the total RNA, whereas 25% of the total RNA was lost during homogenization of the leaf tissue with sucrose-buffer. 3. The total RNA or the RNA from pellet or supernatant fractions, which by its behaviour on Sephadex G-200 columns was found to be predominantly of high molecular weight (i.e. of ribosomal origin), produced about 13 peaks on ECTEOLA-cellulose columns. The RNA species in the pellet and supernatant fractions probably resembled each other in molecular size or secondary structure or both. However, they were present in relatively different amounts in these fractions. 4. The T(m) (i.e. the temperature at which 50% of the maximal increase in extinction had occurred) of total RNA and of RNA from pellet fraction was 64.5 degrees whereas T(m) of RNA from the supernatant fraction was 73 degrees . The total RNA and the RNA from pellet fraction also resembled each other in nucleotide composition, and the RNA from the supernatant fraction in accordance with its high T(m) had a high GMP+CMP content
5862407
1. Rhodesian copalwood (Guibourtia coleosperma) contains three diastereo-isomeric leuco-fisetinidins. These consist of the (-)-2,3-cis-3,4-cis (2R,3R,4R) and (-)-2,3-cis-3,4-trans (2R,3R,4S) 3',4',7-trihydroxyflavan-3,4-diols, and the third was shown to be a 2,3-trans-3,4-cis isomer by means of paper ionophoresis. 2. There occurrence in similar proportions as tannin precursors also in the tropical hardwoods G. tessmannii and G. demeusii implies a close taxonomic relationship between these, and with G. coleosperma. 3. Epimerization of the natural (-)-3',4',7- trihydroxy-2,3-trans-flavan-3,4-trans-diol affords a mixture from which the (-)-2,3-cis-3,4-cis isomer was separated readily, but the (-)-2,3-trans-3,4-cis isomer was obtained with difficulty. These were formed by epimerization of the (-)-2,3-trans-3,4-trans isomer at C-2 and C-4, and at C-4, respectively
5862409
1. The effects of cyanogen bromide on horse-heart cytochrome c and horse-heart myoglobin have been investigated. Cytochrome c yielded four fragments, of which two were haemopeptides. The two colourless peptides had amino acid compositions corresponding to those that are expected, on the basis of the sequence proposed for horse-heart cytochrome c by Margoliash, Smith, Kreil &amp; Tuppy (1961), from cleavage at both methionine residues. Of the two haemopeptides, one was isolated and shown to be that derived from cleavage at only one methionine residue, that nearer to the C-terminus of the peptide chain. 2. Myoglobin also gave four peptides, three of which accounted for the total amino acid content of the intact protein. The fourth fragment arose by cleavage at a single methionine residue, that nearer the C-terminus. Characterization of this fourth fragment made it possible to deduce the order of arrangement of the fragments in the intact molecule
5862411
1. Oxalic acid is separated from interfering substances by extraction with tri-n-butyl phosphate followed by co-precipitation with calcium sulphate. The precipitated oxalic acid is then reduced to glyoxylic acid, which is coupled with resorcinol to form a coloured fluorescent complex. 2. The spectrofluorometric method described is sensitive and highly specific, the minimum detectable amount of oxalic acid being 0.9mumole under the recommended conditions. 3. The concentration of oxalic acid in blood from 15 normal adults was 200-320mug./100ml. For serum the range was 135-280mug./100ml. The urinary excretion of oxalic acid by 60 normal adults on a normal diet was 9.0-28.5mg./24hr
5862410
1. Four of the known components of wall preparations of vegative cells of Bacillus licheniformis N.C.T.C. 6346 have been isolated free of each other after successive treatments of the walls with trichloroacetic acid and lysozyme: (a) a mucopeptide consisting of glucosamine, muramic acid, alphain-diaminopimelic acid, glutamic acid and alanine in the molar proportions 1.0:0.8:1.0:1.2:1.7; (b) an insoluble protein; (c) teichoic acid containing phosphorus and glucose in equimolar amounts; (d) teichuronic acid containing equimolar amounts of N-acetylgalactosamine and glucuronic acid, as found by Janczura, Perkins &amp; Rogers (1961). 2. Evidence has been obtained for the presence in the soluble fraction obtained by lysozyme treatment of whole walls of a stable covalent complex of the teichoic acid and the mucopeptide components. 3. The molar ratio of phosphorus to glucose in the teichoic acid present in intact walls or the soluble fractions obtained by extraction of the walls with lysozyme or trichloroacetic acid is 1.0:0.25, in contrast with values of about unity obtained for the purified teichoic acid. 4. Intact walls have been shown to contain polyribitol phosphate chains bearing different amounts of glucose substituents. 5. Trichloroacetic acid extracts of walls also contain polyribitol phosphate compounds of different chain lengths. Dialysis of trichloroacetic acid extracts removes the short chains of polyribitol phosphate that have been found to carry only very low amounts of glucose side chains. By contrast, the longer chains present in the non-diffusible fraction contain phosphorus and glucose in almost equimolar amounts
5862412
1. alpha-Crystallin has been isolated from the cortex of ox lens by isoelectric precipitation followed by chromatography on DEAE-cellulose. The amino acid composition is in agreement with that reported for alpha-crystallin prepared by a different method. There is one thiol group/20000g. of protein (20000 is the order of magnitude of the sub-unit molecular weight), and disulphide bonds are absent. 2. The thiol group has been alkylated with radioactive iodoacetate in the presence of urea. 3. Partial acid hydrolysis of the alkylated protein gives, according to the conditions, mainly three radioactive peptides or nearly exclusively one radioactive dipeptide. The dipeptide is N-seryl-(S-carboxymethyl)cysteine, Ser-CMCys. The two other peptides are probably the tripeptides related to Ser-CMCys. 4. The simplest interpretation of these results is that the sequence around the cysteine residue is a common structural feature of the sub-units of alpha-crystallin
5862413
1. Esters of gamma-guanidino-l-alpha-toluene-p-sulphonamidobutyric acid (alpha-N-toluene-p-sulphonyl-l-norarginine) have been synthesized and shown to be hydrolysed by bovine trypsin and thrombin. As substrates for these enzymes, they were better than esters of alpha-N-toluene-p-sulphonyl-l-homoarginine or of alpha-N-toluene-p-sulphonyl-l-ornithine but not as good as esters of alpha-N-toluene-p-sulphonyl-l-arginine. 2. With trypsin as catalyst, the methyl and propyl esters are hydrolysed at the same rate at high substrate concentrations and hence deacylation of the acyl-enzyme appears to be rate-determining. In the presence of thrombin, however, the methyl ester is hydrolysed much faster than the n-propyl ester. 3. The variation of k(0) with pH indicates that groups with pK((app.)) values of 7.05+/-0.02 and 6.53+/-0.02 must be dissociated in trypsin and thrombin respectively for hydrolysis to proceed. 4. Activation constants have been determined for the trypsin-catalysed hydrolysis of methyl gamma-guanidino-l-alpha-toluene-p-sulphonamidobutyrate and have been compared with the corresponding constants for the hydrolysis of homologous substrates. 5. Cholate increases k(0) and decreases K(m); the effects are more pronounced with thrombin than with trypsin
5862414
1. Pseudomonas pyocyanea N.C.T.C. 8203 produces a beta-lactamase that is inducible by high concentrations of benzylpenicillin or cephalosporin C. Methicillin appeared to be a relatively poor inducer, but this could be attributed in part to its ability to mask the enzyme produced. Much of the enzyme is normally cell-bound. 2. No evidence was obtained that the crude enzyme preparation consisted of more than one beta-lactamase and the preparation appeared to contain no significant amount of benzylpenicillin amidase or of an acetyl esterase. 3. The maximum rate of hydrolysis of cephalosporin C and several other derivatives of 7-aminocephalosporanic acid by the crude enzyme was more than five times that of benzylpenicillin. Methicillin, cloxacillin, 6-aminopenicillanic acid and 7-aminocephalosporanic acid were resistant to hydrolysis, and methicillin and cloxacillin were powerful competitive inhibitors of the action of the enzyme on easily hydrolysable substrates. 4. Cephalosporin C, cephalothin and cephaloridine yielded 2 equiv. of acid/mole on enzymic hydrolysis, and deacetylcephalorsporin C yielded 1 equiv./mole. Evidence was obtained that the opening of the beta-lactam ring of cephalosporin C and cephalothin is accompanied by the spontaneous expulsion of an acetoxy group and that of cephaloridine by the expulsion of pyridine. 5. A marked decrease in the minimum inhibitory concentration of benzylpenicillin and several hydrolysable derivatives of 7-aminocephalosporanic acid was observed when the size of the inoculum was decreased. This suggested that the production of a beta-lactamase contributed to the factors responsible for the very high resistance of Ps. pyocyanea to these substances. It was therefore concluded that the latter might show synergism with the enzyme inhibitors, methicillin and cloxacillin, against this organism
5862415
1. Acetylcarnitine added in catalytic amounts to kidney mitochondria produces an active oxidation of endogenous fatty acids. 2. In conditions of mitochondrial ;aging', under which acetate is not oxidized, acetylcarnitine also promotes the oxidation of this exogenous substrate. 3. Dinitrophenol completely abolishes the action of acetylcarnitine. 4. Carnitine is ineffective both in the oxidation of endogenous fatty acids and of exogenous acetate. 5. The action of acetylcarnitine is shared, though to a smaller extent, by pyruvate. 6. The mechanism of acetylcarnitine action has been interpreted by considering that the readily oxidizable acetyl group of acetylcarnitine can supply the initial investment of energy needed to start fatty acid oxidation
5862416
1. Cysteamine is oxidized to hypotaurine by an enzyme extracted from horse kidney, with sulphur or sulphide acting as a cofactor. It has been now found that, when the enzyme is omitted, sulphur and sulphide are able to catalyse the oxidation of cysteamine to cystamine by molecular oxygen. 2. Methylene blue may be used in catalytic amounts as a cofactor in the enzymic oxidation of cysteamine to hypotaurine in the place of sulphur or sulphide. The effect of methylene blue is not light-dependent and is not abolished by catalase. Other redox dyes with E'(0) higher than that of methylene blue are also used as cofactors. 3. A property common to all the cofactors is that they are necessary for the enzymic process in catalytic amounts, though they depress the final amount of hypotaurine produced when added over a critical concentration. All the cofactors share also the property of being catalysts for the non-enzymic oxidation of cysteamine to cystamine. 4. Methylene blue is reduced by cysteamine under anaerobic conditions, and is reoxidized in the presence of air. The rate of the reduction is not accelerated by the enzyme, indicating that the dye does not act in this reaction as a hydrogen carrier from the enzyme to oxygen. The possible mechanism of action of methylene blue and of the other cofactors is discussed
5862417
1. The components of an enzyme preparation from Aspergillus niger, which hydrolysed substrates containing beta-(1--&gt;3)- and beta-(1--&gt;4)-glucosidic linkages, were separated by calcium phosphate and Dowex 1 column chromatography. 2. The hydrolytic activity of each fraction from both types of column towards laminaribiose, laminarin, carboxymethylpachyman, pachydextrins, salicin, cellobiose, cellopentaose and swollen cellulose was tested. 3. The activity towards the beta-(1--&gt;3)-glucosidic substrates was found in three well-separated groups of fractions. The differences in action pattern of these groups is discussed. 4. Preparative-scale chromatography that enabled the separation of a beta-(1--&gt;4)-glucan-glucanohydrolase component substantially free of activity towards beta-(1--&gt;3)-glucosidic substrates is described. Residual beta-(1--&gt;3)-glucan-hydrolase activity was removed by adsorption on to insoluble laminarin at pH3.5
5862419
1. No primary hydrogen acceptor other than phenazine methosulphate has been found for the alcohol dehydrogenase from Pseudomonas sp. M27. 2. None of a wide range of vitamins or cofactors has any effect on the activity of the enzyme. 3. The enzyme is far less sensitive to metal-chelating agents and thiol reagents than are other alcohol dehydrogenases. 4. Methanol is oxidized at least as fast as other alcohols by this enzyme and its well-defined substrate specificity is different from that of other alcohol dehydrogenases. Only primary alcohols are oxidized; the general formula for an oxidizable substrate is R.CH(2).OH, where R may be H or [Formula: see text] 5. Whole organisms oxidize only those alcohols that are oxidized by the isolated enzyme
5862418
1. A beta-(1--&gt;4)-glucan hydrolase prepared from Aspergillus niger, as described by Clarke &amp; Stone (1965a), showed a pH optimum in the range 4.5-6 and K(m) 0.25% when acting on a cellulose dextrin sulphate substrate. 2. The hydrolase rapidly decreased the specific viscosity of carboxymethylcellulose with a small increase in the production of reducing sugars. The identity of the products of hydrolysis of cellotetraose, cellopentaose and their reduced analogues indicate a preferential cleavage of non-terminal glucosidic linkages. The enzyme may be described as beta-(1--&gt;4)-glucan 4-glucanohydrolase (EC 3.2.1.4). 3. In addition to carboxymethylcellulose, cellulose dextrins, cellopentaose and cellotetraose the enzyme fraction hydrolysed lichenin, oat and barley glucans, ivory-nut mannan and a glucomannan from Konjak flour. No hydrolysis of wheat-straw beta-(1--&gt;4)-xylan, Lupinus albus beta-(1--&gt;4)-galactan, pneumococcal type III polysaccharide, chitin, hyaluronic acid, laminarin, pachydextrins, carboxymethylpachyman or beta-(1--&gt;3)-oligoglucosides was detected. 4. The hydrolase showed no transglycosylase activity from cellodextrin or cellopentaose substrates to glucose or methanol acceptors. 5. The hydrolysis of cellodextrins was inhibited completely by 1.0mm-Hg(2+), 0.7mm-phenylmercuric nitrate and 1.0mm-iodine
5862420
1. The swelling and solubilization of foetal and adult bovine ligament over a range of pH values has been investigated. 2. Maximum swelling occurs at pH2.7 and pH8.5 for both types of ligament. Abover pH13 complete solubilization occurs. 3. Considerably greater swelling and solubilization occurs with foetal ligament below pH12. 4. The presence of 2m-sodium chloride markedly suppresses both swelling and solubilization. Above 1n-sodium hydroxide actual dehydration occurs and little or no protein is extracted. 5. It is suggested that the intermolecular cross-links in a considerable proportion of foetal elastin are weak and that extraction with aqueous salt solution at pH8.5 would provide optimum conditions for extracting soluble proteins, including soluble elastin if this is present
5862421
1. A new combined radioactivity-fluorescence method is described for urinary oestrone, which involves acid hydrolysis, extraction and purification of the phenolic fraction, saponification, a Girard T separation and alumina chromatography of acetylated oestrone. 2. Sulphuric acid fluorescence is used for quantitation and specificity is achieved by the addition of tritiated oestrone to the urine hydrolysate. This radioactive tracer functions both as an internal corrector for purification losses and enables the demonstration of constant specific activity through the oestrone peaks to act as an index of specificity in each determination. 3. By using one-fifth of a 24hr. urine sample, 1mug. of urinary oestrone/24hr. can be determined with an accuracy of +/-4%. Fluorescence emission spectra from processed urine samples are identical with that of authentic oestrone acetate. 4. The advantages of the method are its high sensitivity and specificity, which is achieved with relative convenience
5862422
1. The major metabolite of 2,4-dimethoxy-6-sulphanilamidopyrimidine (sulphadimethoxine) in urine in man is a non-reducing glucuronide, which has been isolated and characterized as its S-benzylthiouronium salt. 2. The same compound was made synthetically by standard methods from sodium sulphadimethoxine and methyl 2,3,4-tri-O-acetyl-1-bromoglucuronate. 3. On hydrolysis with acid, the glucuronide yielded sulphanilic acid, glucuronic acid and barbituric acid, and with beta-glucuronidase it slowly yielded sulphadimethoxine and glucuronic acid. 4. Evidence based on infrared spectra and other data showed that the urinary and synthetic glucuronide was 1-deoxy-1-[N(1)'-(2'',4''-dimethoxypyrimidin-6'' -yl)sulphanilamido-beta-d-glucosid]uronic acid or sulphadimethoxine N(1)-glucuronide. 5. N(1)-Methyl- and N(ring)-methyl derivatives of sulphadimethoxine and 4-methoxy-6-sulphanilamidopyrimidine were prepared and their infrared and ultraviolet spectra determined for comparison
5862423
1. Evidence has been produced for the formation of 5-phosphomevalonate from potassium dl-mevalonate by the latex of Hevea brasiliensis and by reconstituted freeze-dried serum obtained from this latex. 2. The enzyme, mevalonate kinase, catalysing the formation of 5-phosphomevalonate from potassium dl-mevalonate and ATP has been partially purified. 3. 5-Phosphomevalonate formed by the purified mevalonate kinase from potassium [2-(14)C]mevalonate has been shown to be incorporated by latex into rubber to about 2.4 times the extent of dl-mevalonate. 4. The enzyme can utilize inosine triphosphate as effectively as adenosine triphosphate as a phosphate donor and is also slightly active with uridine triphosphate. 5. The enzyme was fairly stable to a range of pH values and temperatures, the activity being optimum at pH7.5 and 60-70 degrees . The energy of activation was 10.7kcal./mole. The K(m) values were 0.13mm for potassium dl-mevalonate and 2.0mm for ATP at 30 degrees . 6. The enzyme required the presence of Mn(2+) (1mm) for maximum activity; this could be replaced by Mg(2+) (4mm), which was less effective, and by Ca(2+), which was far less effective. 6. Although the enzyme did not require cysteine or reduced glutathione for activation in aerobic conditions, it was inhibited by reagents known to react with thiol groups
5862424
1. The variation with pH of the excitation and fluorescence wavelengths and fluorescence intensity of several hydroxy- and amino-biphenyls has been investigated with a view to using the data for the determination of hydroxybiphenyls in biological material. 2. 2- and 3-Hydroxy-, 2,2'-dihydroxy-, and 2-, 3- and 4-amino-biphenyl exhibited excited-state ionization. 4-Hydroxy- and 4,4'-dihydroxybiphenyl did not, and showed normal fluorescence changes with pH. 3. Biphenyl and 2- and 4-methoxybiphenyl showed no changes in fluorescence in the range pH0-14. 4. 4,4'-Dihydroxybiphenyl showed fluorescent peaks corresponding to the un-ionized form, the monoanion and dianion at the appropriate pH values, but 2,2'-dihydroxybiphenyl showed fluorescent peaks corresponding to the un-ionized form and the monoanion only, suggesting that it did not form a dianion. 5. 3- and 4-Nitrobiphenyl were non-fluorescent. 6. These results are discussed
5862425
1. A study has been made of the enzymic hydroxylation of biphenyl by liver microsomal preparations from 11 species of animals, by using a fluorescence method for the micro-estimation of the hydroxylation products, 2- and 4-hydroxybiphenyl. 2. Livers from all species examined produced 4-hydroxybiphenyl, but only those from mice, hamsters, cats, coypus and frogs produced 2-hydroxybiphenyl as well. 3. Adult rat and rabbit livers produced only the 4-isomer, but livers from the young of these species also produced the 2-isomer. 4. The properties and requirements of the 4-hydroxylating enzyme of rabbit liver were studied. 5. The results are discussed and it is suggested that the 2- and 4-hydroxylating enzymes are different
5862498
The insect-trapping movement of the plant Dionaea muscipula (Venus's fly-trap) is mediated by the stimulation of mechanosensory hairs located on the surface of the trap. It is known that stimulation of the hairs is followed by action potentials which are propagated over the surface of the trap. It has been reported that action potentials always precede trap closure. The occurrence of non-propagated receptor potentials is reported here. Receptor potentials always precede the action potentials. The receptor potential appears to couple the mechanical stimulation step to the action potential step of the preying sequence. Receptor potentials elicited by mechanical stimulation of a sensory hair were measured by using the hair as an integral part of the current-measuring path. The tip of the hair was cut off exposing the medullary tissue; this provided a natural extension of the measuring electrode into the receptor region at the base of the hair. A measuring pipette electrode was slipped over the cut tip of the hair. Positive and negative receptor potentials were measured. Evidence is presented which supports the hypothesis that the positive and negative receptor potentials originate from independent sources. An analysis is made of (a) the relation of the parameters of mechanical stimuli to the magnitude of the receptor potential, and (b) the relation of the receptor potentials to the action potential. The hypothesis that the positive receptor potential is the generator of the action potential is consistent with these data
5862499
A high molecular weight fraction of a soluble Marsh muscle-relaxing preparation has been shown to contain a calcium-complexing substance. By examining the nature of the competition between this fraction and chelex-100 for calcium at various total calcium concentrations it has been possible to calculate the concentration and calcium stability constant of this calcium-complexing substance. Taking into account dilutions which occur during the preparation of fractions containing this substance its concentration may be estimated at about 2.10(-4) in muscle and its calcium stability constant was found to be about 1.5.10(5)M(-1). Preliminary evidence suggests that the calcium-binding substance is a protein
5862501
The values of membrane action potentials and maximum depolarization rates of single muscle fibers in normal Tyrode solution and in low sodium solutions containing as little as 20 per cent of the sodium chloride were measured with intracellular microelectrodes. Under these conditions the membrane potential remains unchanged up to 36 per cent of [Na(+)](out) concentration, whereas the overshoot of the action potential varies linearly with the logarithm of the external sodium concentration. The maximum depolarization rate is a linear function of the external sodium concentration. The results obtained support the ionic theory for sodium and the independence principle for sodium current related to the external sodium concentration
5862500
Ionic relationships in the giant ameba Chaos chaos were studied by analyzing bulk preparations of ground cytoplasm for K, Na, and Cl. Ion levels under normal conditions were compared with the levels in cells exposed to varying concentrations of different ions, for varying times and at different temperatures. By standard intracellular electrode techniques, the bioelectric potential, electrical resistance, and rectifying properties of the plasmalemma were studied on intact cells in media of different composition. The results obtained, when related to evidence from other studies on ion fluxes and osmotic relationships, suggest the following concept of ionic regulation in Chaos chaos. In the absence of active membrane uptake, the plasmalemma is essentially impermeable to anions but permeable to both K and Na, which enter passively. In the cold the cell does not discriminate between K and Na, the cytoplasmic level of K + Na is determined by a Donnan distribution, and osmotic imbalance leads to slow swelling. At normal temperatures active processes are added: Na and water are pumped out by the contractile vacuole system; Cl is accumulated, along with the colloid components of the cytoplasm, only during feeding and growth, which depend upon membrane uptake and intracellular membrane transformations. There is no evidence for active transport of any ion species directly across the plasmalemma
5862502
Sodium, potassium, and chloride concentrations were determined in the sheath cells and axoplasm of the nerve fiber of the squid Sepioteuthis sepioidea. The sheaths were obtained by slitting the nerve fiber, the extracellular electrolytes were washed out in isotonic sucrose solution, and the concentrations in the cells were determined after different soaking times in the sucrose solution. Values for the Schwann cell were calculated by extrapolation to zero time from the plots of the logarithms of the concentrations in the cells as a function of soaking time in sucrose solution. The Schwann cells made up 84 per cent of the sheath's total cellular volume. The Schwann cell concentrations in millimols per liter, are: 312 (404-241) for sodium, 220 (308-157) for potassium, and 167 (208-138) for chloride. The concentrations in the axoplasm (mean +/- SE), in millimols per liter are: 52 +/- 10 for sodium, 335 +/- 25 for potassium, and 135 +/- 14 for chloride. The possibility that some fraction of the Schwann cell electrolytes, especially of sodium, is bound, cannot be discarded
5862503
Each papilla in an enlarged photograph of the tip of the tongue was identified electrically as belonging to one of the four basic taste sensations. The temperature coefficient of the threshold for electrical stimulation was observed for single papillae. The results seem to divide the four basic taste sensations into two different groups: sour-salty and sweet-bitter. This is the same division that has been reported with other methods
5862505
Squid axons were exposed to solutions of C(14)-labeled compounds. After 60 minutes the axoplasm was extruded and assayed for radioactivity. The following compounds penetrated to about 3 per cent of what would have been expected had there been no barrier to free diffusion and the subsequent attainment of equivalent distribution: mannitol, sucrose, glutamate, glutamine, aspartate, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethylamine, lambda-aminobutyrate, serotonin, and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate. All these compounds are water-soluble; in addition, some are ionized over the entire pH range. Partially ionized indoleacetate, acetylsalicylate, and 5,5-diphenylhydantoin penetrated about 40 per cent and unionized, water-insoluble cortisol and dieldrin, 100 per cent. A striking exception to this grouping was glucose, which penetrated about 20 per cent. Studies with specifically labeled glucose indicate participation of the pentose phosphate pathway as a metabolic route in axonal membrane and associated cell wall material, and partial or complete absence of the oxidative system in the axoplasm. Except for glucose, penetration of the substances studied appears to depend largely on the extent of the non-polar, lipophilic character of the compound. Penetration can be markedly increased by pretreatment of the axons with cottonmouth moccasin venom
5862504
Changes in the volume of fiber water in hypotonic and hypertonic Ringer's solution were determined for the sartorius, stomach, and cardiac muscle of the frog using two methods. Loss of water in hypertonic solutions was nearly the same in all muscles, but swelling in hypotonic solutions was greatest in the sartorius, smallest in the heart. For the sartorius the deviation from the properties of an osmometer can be accounted for by a loss of electrolyte and by assuming that a small part of the fiber water is bound, but this appears insufficient to explain the behavior of stomach and cardiac muscle in hypotonic solutions. In very dilute solutions of CaCl(2) and MgCl(2) a large difference in concentration of electrolytes is maintained between the fibers and the medium. Under these conditions divalent cations, accumulating in the fibers, produce a change in physical properties which indicates increased internal cross-linking. It is suggested, therefore, that swelling is limited as in a gel and that a considerable hydrostatic pressure may develop within the fibers
5862506
In this study the model of Shemin and Rittenberg for estimating the life span of red blood cells was extended so that non-steady-state conditions, exemplified by growth or changing physiological states, might be considered. The parameters were estimated by use of the modified Gauss-Newton method. The biological data that were used came from growing sheep in different physiological states with regard to copper. The model was extended to include changes in total blood hemin and changes in blood hemin synthesis that may occur with time. In the present study a linear function was taken as a first approximation. The model appeared to be a sufficiently good approximation in the study reported herein. It was found, however, that the parameters associated with changes in hemin should be estimated from ancillary measurements such as blood volume, Hb, body weight, etc., in order to obtain a good fit or definition of the model
5862507
Glass micropipette electrodes have been employed to study the transsurface potential difference of Neurospora crassa. For mature hyphae grown in agar cultures, the internal potential is large and negative, often exceeding -200 mv. The potential is sensitive to the concentrations of extracellular potassium, sodium, hydrogen, and calcium ions, but does not vary in a manner which is readily explained by ionic diffusion potentials. With extracellular solutions containing only potassium chloride (or sulfate) and sucrose, the internal potential shifts toward zero (becomes less negative) at 45 mv per tenfold increase of potassium, over the range 0.1 to 10 mM. A similar result has been found with sodium, though the slope is only 33 mv/log unit. Calcium (1 mM) diminishes the influence of potassium and sodium by 60 to 70 per cent. As potassium or sodium is raised above 20 mM, the slope of the internal potential increases sharply to 85 to 90 mv/log unit, both in the presence and absence of calcium. With increasing hydrogen ion concentration, too, the internal potential shifts toward zero; in this case the slope is about 12 mv/pH unit at pH 9 and rises smoothly to 33 mv/pH unit at pH 3. All these phenomena are probably properties of the plasma membrane. The polysaccharide cell wall contains few fixed negative charges, has a low transverse resistance, and supports very little potential difference when separated from the plasma membrane
5862508
The internal potential of Neurospora appears to have two components, one (a) which is reduced by anoxia or abolished by respiratory inhibitors such as azide and 2,4-dinitrophenol, and (b) a fraction that remains in the presence of respiratory inhibitors and is sensitive to the external potassium concentration. Under standard conditions 1 mM azide or dinitrophenol diminishes internal potentials from near -200 mv to about -30 mv within 1 minute and at a maximal rate of 20 mv/second. The internal potential usually recovers within 10 minutes after the inhibitor has been removed. The effect of carbon monoxide on the internal potential is similar to that of azide or dinitrophenol, but can be reversed by visible light, specifically of the wavelengths (430 mmicro and 590 mmicro) known to decompose cytochrome-CO complexes in yeast. Respiration and internal potentials vary proportionally with azide concentration, but dinitrophenol at low (3 x 10(-6)M) concentrations enhances oxygen consumption without affecting the internal potential. In the presence of 0.1 mM calcium, the fraction of the internal potential which persists during respiratory inhibition increases (becomes more negative) about 30 mv for each tenfold decrease of external potassium over the range 10 to 0.1 mM. The surface resistivity of Neurospora, normally about 5000 ohm.cm(2), is unchanged by respiratory inhibitors during the period of rapid potential shift
5863434
It is shown by thermodynamic arguments and by semiquantitative considerations that the contribution of thermal migration to biological transport is likely to be small
5863435
The study of the fluorescence of chlorophyll a offers a useful approach toward better understanding of the primary act of photosynthesis. This paper describes new measurements of the decay of chlorophyll a fluorescence in vivo, made with a considerably improved oscilloscopic-display technique. The main result is the identification of two decay periods both of the order of a few nanoseconds. Possible interpretations of this phenomenon are discussed
5863436
A formula is derived which extends the solid angle potential formulation for an active cell in a volume conductor to the case of unequal internal and external conductivities
5863437
A theoretical analysis of the voltage-current relationship is carried out in a membrane consisting of two fixed charge regions, of opposite sign, in contact. This is achieved by applying the diffusion equations to this system in conjunction with the Poisson-Boltzmann equation. The latter has been successfully applied by Mauro to determine the profiles of the electrostatic potential in his treatment of the capacitative property of such a system. It is shown that the system displays the property of rectification and is very similar in many respects to a solid state P-N junction diode. It is also shown that for the case of reverse bias, an electrical breakdown phenomena can occur. This is referred to as the "punch-through" effect. "Punch-through" was observed in experiments on the electrical characteristics of the membranes of Chara australis and Nitella sp. The experimental results are discussed in relation to the theoretical analysis
5865927
Evidence is presented for the existence of arborizing cytoplasmic processes extending from the surface of the cerebral cortex of human brain into the surrounding fluid medium. These originate from subpial fibrous astrocytes and contain the usual cytoplasmic organelles of those cells. They are bordered by basement membrane. Their occurrence is localized and variable over the cortical surface. They are more prevalent in pathological human material than in "normal" human brain and somewhat more prevalent in the latter than in normal rat cortex. Some additional information is presented regarding the relationship of leptomeninges to the cortical surface. The pia mater does not invariably adhere inseparably to the subjacent layer of fibrous astrocytes as generally assumed at present, nor does it always form a continuous layer over the surface of the brain in the material under study. Both collagen and cytoplasmic extensions of astrocytes intervene between these layers. These findings imply that glial elements of the cortex have direct access to the cerebrospinal fluid
5865928
The effects of whole body x-irradiation on the fine structure of sympathetic neurons were studied in 15 unanesthetized adult frogs (Rana pipiens), as seen at intervals ranging from 1 hour to 2 weeks after single exposures to 1000 r and 2000 r. Using standard procedures, the lumbar sympathetic ganglia of experimental and 20 control animals were prepared for electron microscope examination. Radiation produced conspicuous but irregular and variable deterioration, swelling, and clearing of neuronal lysosomes. These changes may have been due to an increased permeability of lysosomal membranes, causing the entry of fluid into lysosomes and their swelling and deterioration, but a pronounced escape of lysosomal enzymes into the cytoplasm was questionable. Less frequent were the dilatation and the parallel layering or complete fusion and tight packing of the rough-edged endoplasmic reticulum. The number of vacuoles, probably derived from Golgi cisternae, was somewhat increased. These vacuoles were conjectured to serve the "sequestration" of damaged cytoplasmic areas. Abnormal amounts of presumptive glycogen granules occupied some axons of myelinated and unmyelinated fibers, especially of presynaptic nerve fibers. This was assumed to be due to a decreased breakdown of glycogen and probably caused the interruption of the transmission of nerve impulses in presynaptic fibers. The maximal incidence of these alterations seemingly occurred 8 days after exposure to 1000 r, and 1 hour after x-irradiation with 2000 r. Signs of recovery appeared 2 weeks after exposure to 2000 r
5865930
An electron microscopic examination of Porphyridium cruentum revealed the presence of mitochondria which had been reported absent in this aerobic organism. The chloroplast in this red alga was found to contain small granules (about 320 A) regularly arranged along the parallel chloroplast lamellae. The chloroplast granules differ in size and staining intensity from the ribosomes located in the cytoplasm. Two tubular elements are described. One type (450 to 550 A) is associated with the Golgi bodies. Another type (350 A), in the cell periphery, is believed to connect the endoplasmic reticulum and the cell membrane. Daughter nuclei were found to be positioned at opposite ends of the cell prior to commencement of cell division. Cytokinesis is accomplished by an annular median constriction causing the gradual separation of the chloroplast, pyrenoid, and other cell organelles, resulting in two equal daughter cells. No appreciable differences were observed between cells grown in high light (400 ft-c) and low light (40 ft-c). Structural differences between young and old cells were compared
5865929
According to theory, the action of acetylcholine (ACh) and ACh-esterase is essential for the permeability changes of excitable membranes during activity. It is, therefore, pertinent to know the activity of ACh-esterase per unit axonal surface area instead of per gram nerve, as it has been measured in the past. Such information has now been obtained with the newly developed microgasometric technique using a magnetic diver. (1) The cholinesterase (Ch-esterase) activity per mm(2) surface of sensory axons of the walking leg of lobster is 1.2 x 10(-3) microM/hr. (sigma = +/- 0.3 x 10(-3); SE = 0.17 x 10(-3)); the corresponding value for the motor axons isslightly higher: 1.93 x 10(-3) microM/hr. (sigma = +/- 0.41 x 10(-3); SE = +/- 0.14 x 10(-3)). Referred to gram nerve, the Ch-esterase activity of the sensory axons is much higher than that of the motor axons: 741 microM/hr. (sigma = +/- 73.5; SE = +/- 32.6) versus 111.6 microM/hr. (sigma = +/- 28.3; SE = +/- 10). (2) The enzyme activity in the small fibers of the stellar nerve of squid is 3.2 x 10(-4) microM/mm(2)/hr. (sigma = +/- 0.96 x 10(-4); SE = +/- 0.4 x 10(-4)). (3) The Ch-esterase activity per mm(2) surface of squid giant axon is 9.5 x 10(-5) microM/hr. (sigma = +/- 1.55 x 10(-5); SE = +/- 0.38 x 10(-5)). The value was obtained with small pieces of carefully cleaned axons after removal of the axoplasm and exposure to sonic disintegration. Without the latter treatment the figurewas 3.85 x 10(-5) microM/mm(2)/hr. (sigma = +/- 3.24 x 10(-5); SE = +/- 0.93 x 10(-5)). The experiments indicate the existence of permeability barriers in the cell wall surrounding part of the enzyme, since the substrate cannot reach all the enzyme even when small fragments of the cell wall are used without disintegration. (4) On the basis of the data obtained, some tentative approximations are made of the ratio of ACh released to Na ions entering the squid giant axon per cm(2) per impulse
5865931
By varying the light intensity and temperature during growth it is possible to obtain cultures of Rhodospirillum molischianum in which the specific bacteriochlorophyll contents differ by as much as fivefold. We used such cultures to compare the changes in the electron microscopic appearance of the cells with the changes in the amount and bacteriochlorophyll content of chromatophore material isolated from cell extracts. The cells contained a variable number of internal membranes which are invaginations of the cell membrane. The shape, size, number, and arrangement of the infoldings varied as the specific bacteriochlorophyll content of the cells changed. In cells with little bacteriochlorophyll, the invaginations were mostly tubular. In cells with larger amounts of bacteriochlorophyll, the invaginations were disc-shaped and the discs were appressed together in stacks of 2 to 10 discs each. Variations in the number of discs per stack could be accounted for by a simple statistical model. The average area per disc increased with increasing bacteriochlorophyll content. Quantitative estimations of the relative volumes occupied by membranes in cells with four different bacteriochlorophyll contents showed that the amount of internal membrane alone had no direct relationship with the bacteriochlorophyll content of the cells; however, the total amount of membrane (cell membrane plus internal membrane) was directly proportional to the bacteriochlorophyll content. The specific bacteriochlorophyll content of isolated chromatophore material was proportional to the bacteriochlorophyll content of whole cells; the total amount of chromatophore material was independent of the bacteriochlorophyll content of whole cells. Several possible explanations of this paradoxical discrepancy between the electron microscope observations and the analytical results are discussed
5865932
Two morphologically distinctive slow growing strains of Neurospora crassa have been isolated and studied. These, abn-1 and abn-2, differ from wild type in that their growth rates are greatly reduced and often irregular, aerial hyphae are absent, conidia are extremely rare, and no protoperithecia are formed. Growth was not improved by addition of any nutrients tested, oxygen consumption was similar to that of wild type, and cytochrome c appeared abnormally high, and b low or absent. Both abn strains gave rise only to normal progeny in crosses with normal strains. The abn characteristics appear in heterocaryons, and have been transmitted to other genetic strains by means of heterocaryosis followed by plating of conidia. Conidia formed by such heterocaryons typically showed low viability, and gave rise to cultures with great variability in growth rate, morphology, and survival. Even apparently normal derived cultures often later became abnormal or died. It is concluded that the abnormal characteristics are determined primarily by cytoplasmic factors. This conclusion was strengthened by the transmission of the typical characteristics to normal strains by microinjection of cytoplasm from abn cultures, even without demonstrable transfer of nuclei. This constitutes the first time microinjection techniques have been successfully applied to the analysis of a cytoplasmic character in Neurospora
5865933
Nuclear fractions isolated from mutants of Neurospora produced no effect when microinjected into mutants with complementary biochemical requirements. DNA isolated from the nuclear fractions similarly injected also had no effect. Mitochondrial fractions isolated from an abnormal inositolless strain (abn-1) produced drastic changes in the rate of growth, morphology, reproductive characteristics, and cytochrome spectra of normal inositolless strains when single hyphal compartments were microinjected and isolated, whereas the mitochondrial fractions of the wild type produced no effect. These results provide evidence for the transmission of biochemical and biological characters when mitochondria are transferred to new nucleocytoplasmic environments
5865934
The distribution of esterase activity in the last abdominal ganglion, the connectives and the cereal nerves of the cockroach Periplaneta americana has been investigated cytochemically. Activity of an unspecific eserine-insensitive esterase (or esterases) has been found in glial elements in these regions of the nerve cord. In addition, sites of cholinesterase (eserine-sensitive) activity have been found in association with (a) the glial sheaths of the axons in the cereal nerves and connectives, (b) the glial folds encapsulating the neuron perikarya in the ganglion, and (c) in localized areas along the membranes of axon branches within the neuropile, often flanked by focal clusters of synaptic vesicles. These results are discussed with particular reference to the previously reported insensitivity of the insect nerve cord to applied acetylcholine, and to the probable existence of a cholinergic synaptic mechanism in the central nervous system of this insect
5865935
The structure of the zona glomerulosa of the rat adrenal gland stimulated by sodium restriction has been studied by light and electron microscopy. The major changes observed during the course of the experiment in stimulated glands involve cytoplasmic droplets, mitochondria, and the endoplasmic reticulum. There is a progressive decrease in the number of cytoplasmic droplets of low electron opacity. Numerous, greatly elongated mitochondria containing parallel arrays of tubules are noted. These tubules extend from within the mitochondria through gaps in the mitochondrial-limiting membranes into the cytoplasm. In addition, amorphous intramitochondrial deposits, possibly aldosterone precursors, are seen. Increased amounts of smooth-surfaced endoplasmic reticulum, often showing complex arrangements, are another feature of the stimulated zona glomerulosa. Other alterations include the presence of large numbers of dense bodies as well as cytoplasmic droplets of high electron opacity. These observations are discussed in relation to the biosynthesis of aldosterone
5865936
The structural interrelationships among several membrane systems in the cells of brown algae have been examined by electron microscopy. In the brown algae the chloroplasts are surrounded by two envelopes, the outer of which in some cases is continuous with the nuclear envelope. The pyrenoid, when present, protrudes from the chloroplast, is also surrounded by the two chloroplast envelopes, and, in addition, is capped by a third dilated envelope or "pyrenoid sac." The regular apposition of the membranes around the pyrenoid contrasts with their looser appearance over the remainder of the chloroplast. The Golgi apparatus is closely associated with the nuclear envelope in all brown algae examined, but in the Fucales this association may extend to portions of the cytoplasmic endoplasmic reticulum as well. Evidence is presented for the derivation of vesicles, characteristic of those found in the formative region of the Golgi apparatus, from portions of the underlying nuclear envelope. The possibility that a structural channeling system for carbohydrate reserves and secretory precursors may be present in brown algae is considered. Other features of the brown algal cell, such as crystal-containing bodies, the variety of darkly staining vacuoles, centrioles, and mitochondria, are examined briefly, and compared with similar structures in other plant cells
5865937
Somatic muscle cells of Ascaris lumbricoides consist of three differently specialized components referred to as the fiber, which contains the contractile apparatus (described previously), the belly, and the arm. The belly is shown to be a sac of glycogen, which is depleted during starvation of the animal. The arm extends to a nerve cord where it establishes a myoneural junction characterized by giant mitochondria and clusters of vesicles in the nerve fibers and by a 500 A neuromuscular gap. The arms, which have been shown to be "electrically interconnected" in the vicinity of the nerve cord, form "tight junctions" with one another in just this region. At high magnification, these junctions can be resolved into several types. In some there is fusion of the outer leaflets of the membranes with formation of an intermediate line. Others resemble septate desmosomes in that a residual extracellular space approximately 20 A in width remains between the membranes, but the outer leaflets are interconnected across the gap. It is suggested that the term "tight junction" encompasses a variety of structures distinguishable only at high magnification and that the different variations are not necessarily equivalent functionally
5865938
A light-dependent mechanism that results in a slow, high-amplitude swelling of spinach chloroplasts in vitro has been discovered. The swelling is readily observed by optical and gravimetric methods, and by the use of an electronic particle counter; all show a 100 per cent increase of chloroplast volume in the light with an approximately 10-minute half-time. The existence of an osmotic mechanism for chloroplast swelling in the dark is confirmed. The volume of illuminated chloroplasts versus NaCl concentration represents the addition of osmotic and light effects. The action of light is enhanced by electron flow cofactors, such as phenazine methosulfate (PMS). However, neither conditions for ATP hydrolysis or synthesis nor NH(4)Cl influence the time course and extent of swelling. Hence, high-amplitude chloroplast swelling is light- (or electron flow), but not energy-dependent. A remarkable inhibitory effect of inorganic phosphate on chloroplast swelling is observed in the light, but not in the dark. Another action of light on chloroplasts is known to result in a shrinkage of chloroplasts which is rapid, reversible, energy-dependent, and requires phosphate. Thus phosphate determines the action of light on chloroplast volume. Since shrinkage is reversible, but swelling is not, it may be that they reflect physiological and deteriorative processes, respectively. Chloroplasts and mitochondria appear to control their volume by similar mechanisms
5865940
The phenomenon of contraction of a striated muscle down to below 50 per cent rest length has been examined for the scutal depressor of the barnacle Balanus nubilus by a combination of phase contrast and electron microscopy. It was found that neurally evoked contraction down to 60 per cent rest length results from the shortening of the I band. At the same time the Z disc changes in structure by an active process which results in spaces opening up within it. Thick filaments can now pass through these spaces from adjacent sarcomeres, interdigitating across the discs. Interdigitation permits repetitive contraction in the living muscle to below 30 per cent rest length. In non-neurally evoked contractions most thick filaments do not find spaces in the Z disc and bend back, giving rise to contraction band artifacts. Expansion of the Z disc can be produced in glycerinated material by the addition of solutions containing a high concentration of ATP
5866030
The effects of antibiotics, sulfonamides, and other antimicrobial agents on vegetative cultures of five strains of milky disease bacteria were compared with those on Bacillus subtilis Cohn emend. Prazmowski, Staphylococcus aureus Rosenbach, Sarcina lutea Schroeter, Escherichia coli (Migula) Castellani and Chalmers, Saccharomyces pastorianus Hansen, and Mucor ramannianus Moel. Similar numbers of viable cells of each organism were exposed to the test materials by use of an antibiotic-sensitivity disc method adapted from techniques recommended by the Food and Drug Administration in the Federal Register. The results suggest that vancomycin or ristocetin, as well as a few other materials, might be useful in controlling contamination either during culture of the fastidious milky disease bacteria or in large populations of vegetative cells undergoing treatment to induce sporulation. Inhibitory concentrations of vancomycin and ristocetin in shaken-tube tests were much lower than expected in comparison with results of sensitivity-disc tests on the milky disease bacteria. Sublethal concentrations of the two antibiotics elicited some morphological change in the bacteria
5866031
A filtration method has been developed which can be used to detect and enumerate phage in low concentrations directly from solution without the need for prior concentration. In this method, a known volume of the phage solution is mixed with a suitable host solution. Samples are filtered through membrane filters; the filter is removed and incubated, and after 24 hr the resultant plaques are counted and the titer is calculated. Escherichia coli B and the coliphage T2 were used in these studies. Host cultures less than 12 hr old produced the best results. Approximately 10(10) host organisms must be present in the sample taken for filtration. To avoid phage reproduction, all steps prior to filtration must be done in less than 45 min. The method was compared with the soft-agar technique and was shown to be less precise but able to measure phage in lower concentrations
5866032
An ecological study of Micrococcus radiodurans indicated that microorganisms possessing the same morphological and radiation-resistance characteristics as that organism could be isolated from ground beef and from pork sausage. Further studies showed that such organisms also could be isolated from beef hides and from water from a creek adjacent to the packing plant from which the meat samples were obtained. Similar microorganisms were not isolated, however, from a limited number of samples of soil, hay, and fecal material. The use of high levels of gamma-radiation in the initial isolation procedures proved to be advantageous in inactivating most of the other microflora and facilitating the isolation of M. radiodurans. Control experiments indicated that M. radiodurans did not compete well with the microflora present in ground meat, soil, and beef hides. Preincubation before irradiation of meat and soil samples or enrichment culture techniques did not enhance the isolation of M. radiodurans. The presence of M. radiodurans in creek water suggested one possible source of this organism
5866033
Equations relating productivity, growth rate, cell concentration, and light absorption lead to the prediction that, when incident light is below saturating intensity, maximal productivity will occur at half the maximal growth rate. The freshwater alga Chlorella pyrenoidosa TX71105 and the marine alga Dunaliella tertiolecta were grown in a small continuous culture apparatus with turbidostatic control. With both cultures, the cell concentration showed a linear decrease with dilution rate. Productivity was maximal at about one-half the maximal dilution rate. Average mass per cell increased near the maximal dilution rate, causing some asymmetry in the productivity versus dilution rate curve. The chlorophyll content per unit mass decreased in this region, but the chlorophyll content per cell remained constant. Best production rate in a light-limited algal culture was obtained when the growth rate at very low cell concentration was determined in the apparatus and the dilution rate was set at one-half that value
5866034
Visual effects of Mycobacterium ranae on a 135-penetration asphalt (asphalt 1A) are described, which show the texture and rheological characteristics of the asphalt to be modified by microbial action. A bentonite-asphalt emulsion system for asphalts 1A, 3A, and 6A was used to subject these materials to the degradative activity of M. ranae and Nocardia coeliaca for 4 months at 30 C. N. coeliaca caused 1.5-, 3.9-, and 6.8-fold increases in relative viscosity of asphalts 1A, 3A, and 6A, respectively. A similar susceptibility pattern for M. ranae was obtained on the same asphalts, but apparently this organism exerted even a greater effect on asphalt 6A since the viscosity of this residue was too hard to be determined satisfactorily. Comparison of these data with analyses of the three asphalts indicates that the organisms probably attack the resin components of the asphalts
5866035
The formation of naringinase, a glycolytic enzyme produced by Aspergillus niger, is repressed by glucose. Production of the enzyme is decreased below pH 4.0 and is stimulated by the presence of substrate. Fermentation conditions are described which cause the formation of the enzyme in approximately a fivefold greater concentration than that previously described
5866036
Acetone cells of Pullularia sp. were incubated with maltose, and the saccharides produced were fractionated on a charcoal column. The fractions were subjected to paper-chromatographic analysis and enzymatic assay. By these methods, the saccharides have been shown to include glucose, maltose, maltotriose, panose, and the lower members of glucose polymers containing the 1,4- and 1,6-alpha-glucosidic linkages, but neither isomaltose nor dextrantriose. The use of glucose oxidase results in the formation of the higher members of glucose polymer
5866037
A method for the quantitative identification of organic compounds in seawater has been developed. When auxotrophic mutants of Serratia marinorubra were incubated at 21 to 24 C for 72 hr with constant agitation, standard bioassay reference curves were obtained. Sodium glycerophosphate (400 mg per liter), ammonium dibasic citrate (5 g per liter), and glycerol (25 ml per liter) supplied the needed nutrients for maximal growth with a limited concentration of the required metabolite. Data are presented for the microbiological assay for biotin in waters of the Gulf of Mexico and adjacent bays. The range of sensitivity for the biotin mutant A101V is 5 to 12 mmug per liter in seawater, with a growth response from 2 to 16 mmug per liter of seawater. The possible ecological and chemical significance of biotin occurrence in spring-summer off-shore water is discussed
5866038
Liquid impingers, filter papers, and fritted bubblers were partial viable collectors of radioactive submicron T1 bacteriophage aerosols at 30, 55, and 85% relative humidity. Sampler differences for viable collection were due to incomplete physical collection (slippage) and killing of phage by the samplers. Dynamic aerosols of a mass median diameter of 0.2 mu were produced with a Dautrebande generator from concentrated aqueous purified phage suspensions containing extracellular soluble radioactive phosphate as a physical tracer. There was considerable destruction of phage by the Dautrebande generator; phage titers of the Dautrebande suspension decreased exponentially, but there was a progressive (linear) increase in tracer titers. Liquid impingers recovered the most viable phage but allowed considerable (30 to 48%) slippage, which varies inversely with the aerosol relative humidity. Filter papers were virtually complete physical collectors of submicron particles but were the most destructive. Fritted bubbler slippage was more than 80%. With all samplers, phage kill was highest at 85% relative humidity and lowest at 55% relative humidity. An electrostatic precipitator was used to collect aerosol samples for particle sizing with an electron microscope. The particle size was slightly larger at 85% relative humidity than at 30 or 55% relative humidity
5866041
We determined the inhibitory end point of a series of bis-methanethiolsulfonates, CH(3)SO(2)S(CH(2))(n)SSO(2)CH(3) (n = 2 to 6), and correlated the structures with antimicrobial activity. Eleven microorganisms were used in the evaluation, and the maximal activity occurred when the methylene chain length was five or six. The effect of CH(3)SO(2)S(CH(2))(5)SSO(2)CH(3) (PMTS) on respiration of Aerobacter aerogenes and Staphylococcus aureus was studied at various stages of their growth cycles. The effect on viability was correlated with that of respiration in the case of A. aerogenes. Respiratory inhibition caused by PMTS varied with the growth phase of both organisms, being most pronounced when the cells tested were taken during the period of transition from the log to stationary phase. The lethal effect on A. aerogenes was also greatest at this time. During the period of increased sensitivity, the antimicrobial activity of PMTS appears to be closely related to cell respiration. The delayed rate of kill otherwise observed may reflect an impairment of protein metabolism through reaction with sensitive SH groups
5866039
Geosmin, an earthy-smelling substance, has been isolated from several actinomycetes. Production of 1 mg per liter of whole broth was obtained from Streptomyces griseus LP-16. After preliminary separations, pure geosmin was isolated in milligram amounts by gas chromatography. Geosmin is a neutral oil, with an approximate boiling point of 270 C, which contains carbon and hydrogen, but no nitrogen. It undergoes a reaction with acid to give odorless argosmin, a neutral oil, with an approximate boiling point of 230 C, which contains only carbon and hydrogen. Specific rotation and ultraviolet- and infrared-absorbtion spectra were determined for both
5866042
The effects of a series of sodium alkyl sulfates (C(4) to C(16)) on flagellation, motility, swarming, and growth of Proteus were examined. The concentrations of the various sodium alkyl sulfates completely inhibiting the swarming phenomenon (on solid medium) and motility (in liquid medium) were in the same order of magnitude. The inhibiting effect of the detergents examined increased from sodium hexyl sulfate (inhibitory concentration, 20 to 30 mmoles per liter) to sodium tetradecyl sulfate (inhibitory concentration, 0.1 to 0.5 mmoles per liter). Flagella were produced neither in liquid nor on solid medium at these concentrations as could be observed by electron microscopy. At concentrations where motility was not impaired, intact flagellation could be observed. At a concentration of 0.1 mmole per liter, sodium tetradecyl sulfate completely inhibited the motility of Proteus in the liquid medium employed without impairing growth
5866040
Diquat (2 x 10(-4)m) inhibited both aerobic and anaerobic growth of Rhodospirillum rubrum. With photosynthetic cultures, diquat affected the synthesis of bacteriochlorophyll more readily than cell mass (turbidity). Diquat retarded the synthesis of bacteriochlorophyll and some protein more readily than that of other cellular constituents such as ribonucleic acid, deoxyribonucleic acid, and cell mass. With cells deficient in phosphate, diquat inhibited the uptake-conversion of inorganic phosphate completely only when 3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,1'-dimethyl urea and ascorbate were also present
5866043
The conditions required for production of levo 2,3-butylene glycol by Bacillus polymyxa from citrus molasses were studied. Starter cultures required acclimatization to the substrate prior to inoculation of the fermentation medium. Maximal production of butylene glycol with minimal residual sugar was obtained with a medium consisting of molasses, diluted to 20 degrees Brix, and 0.4% urea. Optimal environmental conditions included aeration at 0.11 volumes of air per volume of medium per minute, maintenance of pH at 6.0 to 6.2, a fermentation temperature of 30 C, and a stirring rate of 420 rev/min. The concentration of butylene glycol obtained in the fermentation beer ranged from 2.3 to 4.4%. The optical rotation of the glycol ranged from [alpha](D) (23 degrees ) = -1.01 degrees to -10.45 degrees . The variation in rotation was probably due to the presence of contaminating substances in the distillate
5866044
A strain of Fusarium moniliforme (IH4), isolated from soil, showed outstanding enzymatic abilities to hydroxylate a number of estrogens. Estrone and estradiol were transformed into the 15alpha-hydroxy derivatives, and estradiol 3-methyl ether was transformed into the corresponding 6beta-hydroxy derivative. Delta(6)-Estrone was not hydroxylated. The accumulation of 15alpha-hydroxyestrone was influenced by the nutritional conditions of the fungus. Maximal yield was obtained when the organism grew in Czapek solution supplemented with yeast extract, although good conversion was also found in a peptone-corn molasses medium. Substitution of NO(3)-N in Czapek medium with NH(4)-N, lactalbumin hydrolysate, Casitone, or Casamino Acids resulted in limited hydroxylation of estrone. A remarkable strain specificity was demonstrated in this conversion. Of 13 strains of F. moniliforme and Gibberella fujikuroi under investigation, only 2 strains (IH4 and ATCC 9851) accumulated substantial amounts of the 15alpha-hydroxylated product. However, marked quantitative variations were observed which are attributable to a different ability of the organisms to degrade the steroid nucleus. Biochemical instabilities were also found through the appearance of spontaneous variants lacking steroid-hydroxylating activity. Replacement culture studies revealed that 15alpha-hydroxylation of estrone was dependent on the supply of external phosphate; exogenous nitrogen or energy sources were not required. Most of the enzymatic activity was confined to the mycelia. Microconidia showed a very limited hydroxylating activity, even in the presence of supplements or energy sources
5866045
A total of 202 cultures of yeasts were isolated and characterized from king crab and Dungeness crab meat. A yeastlike organism, resembling Aureobasidium pullulans, and 15 different species distributed among the genera Rhodotorula, Cryptococcus, Torulopsis, Candida, and Trichosporon were represented. Nine of the species grew at 5 C or lower. Although two of the species grew at 37 C, none of the isolates had the characteristics of pathogenic species. Members of the Cryptococcus and Candida failed to grow at 37 C. Furthermore, species of the former genus were not pathogenic to mice. The pigmentation of the Rhodotorula cultures decreased in intensity as the incubation temperature was decreased. Biochemical activities of the different species were studied by use of triglycerides, lecithin, and proteins (casein, gelatin, and crab-meat protein) as substrates. Eight of the species could attack triglycerides; eight, lecithin; five, gelatin; one, casein; and one, crab protein. An organism, tentatively identified as Trichosporon sp., was very active in attacking each of the substrates tested and grew well at 0.5 C
5866046
Twenty-two species of bacteria were isolated from Linum usitatissimum stored for retting. Achromobacter parvulus, Clostridium beijerinckii, C. saprogenes, C. saccharoacetoperbutylicum, C. perenne, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa and its achromogenic variety are retting agents. The last species mentioned performs the retting in only 72 hr. This is the first time A. parvulus has been shown to be a retting agent
5866654
The total lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in whole homogenates of various human tissues reacts more similarly toward pyruvate and lactate at 25 degrees C than expected from the marked differences in substrate inhibition at this temperature between isolated, purified LDH-1, and LDH-5. At 37 degrees C, LDH-5 closely resembles LDH-1 in extent of inhibition by substrate. These results are incompatible with the theory that differences in degree of isozyme inhibition by substrate have resulted in predominance of LDH-5 in aerobic tissues and predominance of LDH-1 in aerobic tissues
5866655
Quantum yields for pyridoxal, pyridoxamine, and pyridoxamine-5-phosphate at 25 degrees C in neutral aqueous solution were 0.048, 0.11, and 0.14, respectively. The fluorescence efficiencies were highly temperaturedependent, and the compounds were extremely sensitive to light. There were marked discrepancies between the values obtained in this study for quantum yield and fluorescence polarization of pyridoxamine-5-phosphate and the values recently reported by others
5866656
Disulfide bonds can be cleaved at an alkaline pH by treating a protein with excess of a reagent disulfide in the presence of catalytic amounts of thiol. The cleavage products are stable and can be isolated; they contain the mixed disulfide between the reagent and the exposed thiol groups of the protein. The extent of cleavage is readily controlled by the pH of the reaction, temperature, and the addition of urea. Disulfide bonds cleaved by the reaction can be re-formed by exposing the mixed disulfide of the protein to catalytic amounts of thiol. Specific side chains can be added on to the thiol groups in native proteins by treatment with a reagent disulfide alone
5866657
Electron micrographbs of high resolution have been obtained from fraction I protein of Chinese cabbage leaves. The protein, which has ribulose-1,5-diphosphate carboxylase activitY, appear to be a cube swth edge of about 120 angstroms. Substrtucture canl be seen in individual particles, conlsistent with a model having 24 subunits, the number prescribed by the available physical and chlemical data
5866658
6-Phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (PGD) subunits have been dissociated and reassociated in vitro. The intermediate PGD of the heterozygous phenotype is reproduced by reassociation in vitro of subunits derived from the two types of PGD from homozygous flies. This result has a bearingon gene action in the diploid organism and on the mechanism of dosage compensation in Drosophila melanogaster
5866659
Nitrogen mustard inactivates bacteriophage containing single-stranded DNA and RNA as well as double-stranded DNA. Inactivation may occur by intrastrand cross-linkage in DNA or RNA as well as by interstrand crosslinkage between complementary strands of DNA
5866660
The addition of cortisol acetate and deoxycorticosterone acetate to cultured heart cells from rats, 4 to 6 days old, stimulated and prolonged beating. Protein synthesis was slowed down in the presence of steroids. Addition of steroids to cells that had stopped beating caused the reestablishiment of the beat
5866661
Myelin was isolated from cerebral white matter from a patient who had died of metachromatic leukodystrophy, and its lipid composition was analyzed. Although the lipid content was nearly normal, the myelin contained a three- to fourfold excess of cerebroside sulfate and a threefold deficiency of cerebroside compared to normal myelin. The deficiency of cerebroside and the excess of cerebroside sulfate may account for defective myelination in this disease
5866662
Hemoglobin J(Korat), a "fast" hemoglobin with an anomaly in its beta chain different from the anomalies previously reported, was the major hemoglobin component in the blood of nine subjects among 1923 Thais from northeastern Thailand. After hemoglobin E, J(Korat) is the second most frequent of the anomalous hemoglobins among Thais
5866663
A fungus of Pythium species survives high and low temperatures longer when a suitable sterol is added to the growth medium
5866664
Infrared spectroscopy and optical rotatory dispersion have been used to test theories of structure of membrane protein. No evidence has been found to support the view that adjacent to the lipid there is a monolayer of protein in the beta-conformation. The extracted protein appears to be a fairly typical globular protein with a low a-helical content
5866665
In five male subjects, and a total of 15 man-nights, oxygen consumption rate (V(02)) was related to stage of sleep, as defined by electroencephalograms. Gross periodic variations which paralleled change in stage of sleep were discernible in analogue metabolic records. Computations revealed significant differences (P &lt;.01) between all stages with V(02) highest in stage I REM (dreaming sleep), least in stages III and IV (deep sleep), and intermediate in stage II (light sleep)
5867645
The effectiveness of vitamin K(5) in controlling the growth of different molds at varying pH levels in a culture medium, in tomato juice, and in several berry purees was studied. The molds studied were Aspergillus, Botrytis, Hormodendrum, Mucor, and Penicillium. The results showed that vitamin K(5) was effective as a fungistatic agent at concentrations ranging from 0.006 to 0.02%
5867644
To establish an advantageous method for the production of l-alanine, a procedure was studied for converting l-aspartic acid to l-alanine by microbial l-aspartic beta-decarboxylase. A number of organisms were screened to test their ability to form and accumulate alanine from aspartic acid. Pseudomonas dacunhae was selected as the most advantageous organism. With this organism, enzyme activity as high as 3,910 muliters of CO(2) per hr per ml of medium could be produced by shaking the culture at 30 C in the medium containing ammonium fumarate, sodium fumarate, corn steep liquor, peptone, and inorganic salts. For the enzymatic conversion of l-aspartic acid to l-alanine, the culture broth was employed as the enzyme source. A large amount of l-aspartic acid (as much as 40% of the broth) was converted stoichiometrically to alanine in 72 hr at 37 C. Furthermore, appropriate addition of a surface-active agent to the reaction mixture was found to be highly effective in shortening the time required for the conversion. Accumulated l-alanine was readily isolated in pure form by ordinary procedures with ion-exchange resins. Yields of isolated l-alanine of over 90% from l-aspartic acid were easily attainable
5867646
The effect of different seawaters on survival and growth of biotin-, isoleucine-, and uracil-requiring mutants of the marine bacterium, Serratia marinorubra, has been investigated. Samples of seawater were collected from coastal waters, the California Current, and central North Pacific waters at depths of 1, 25, 50, 100, 250, and 500 m. The growth or survival of the test bacterium in basal medium prepared in these seawater samples was determined. The control water was synthetic or charcoal-treated natural seawater. In several experiments, the metabolite required by the bacterium was added to the basal medium 24 hr after inoculation, and the growth response was determined. Depending on the source, the seawater samples were both stimulating and inhibitory. Surface waters were more inhibitory than those taken at depth, where, in some cases, bacterial growth occurred. Seawater inhibition was related more to station depth than to the location of the station. The most toxic effects were found against the uracil-requiring mutant; the least, against the isoleucine-requiring mutant. The results of these studies and some laboratory experiments indicate that seawater toxicity is not primarily associated with the physical and biological properties of a particular water mass and that the same factor(s) may be responsible for the rapid death of bacteria in all waters
5867647
The effects of four carbon sources and inorganic phosphate on the production of streptomycin and protease by a strain of Streptomyces griseus were studied. Protease production was increased in fermentations with comparatively rapid consumption of carbohydrate, and streptomycin was produced under conditions of moderately slow consumption. Starch was consumed more rapidly than glucose, and, in fermentations with starch as a carbon source, good yields of protease were associated with poor yields of streptomycin. The effect of the concentration of inorganic phosphate varied with the sugar source; the rate of consumption of glucose or fructose increased with the addition of inorganic phosphate, and the utilization of starch or maltose was not affected
5867648
The use of four stereoisomers of isoleucine by Lactobacillus fermenti strain 36 was studied in detail. All four isoleucine isomers were used for growth in the presence of vitamin B(6) compounds, but only l-isoleucine was active in the absence of these vitamins. Of the vitamin B(6) compounds, pyridoxal and pyridoxamine were equally more effective than pyridoxine for the utilization of these isomers. Lowering the initial pH, decreasing the amounts of leucine and valine, and adapting the organism to d-alloisoleucine medium accelerated the use of isoleucine isomers. Thus, the conditions were established under which respective isomers gave the same growth response, and these findings were applied to the separate microbiological assay of l-isoleucine and total isoleucine isomers
5867649
The effects on enzyme production of inoculum size and age, medium composition, and culture conditions were studied in shake flasks and in a pilot-plant fermentor. Using a medium consisting of glucose, yeast extract, and inorganic salts in deionized water, we found that the addition of Cu(++) was essential for the formation of active enzyme. Cultures grown in the absence of added copper produced an inactive enzyme protein which could be activated by 10(-3) M Cu(++). Thiamine fulfilled all requirements for exogenous vitamins for growth and enzyme production. Glucose concentrations higher than 1% markedly suppressed enzyme formation. The mycelium inactivated the enzyme on prolonged incubation of the culture. Mycelial autolysates and sonic extracts were found to contain a thermostable and slowly dialyzable galactose oxidase-inactivating factor. The experiments suggest that this factor operates as a chelating agent which forms complexes with the copper of the enzyme. Copper ions (10(-3) M) prevented enzyme inactivation and restored activity to samples previously inactivated by this factor
5867650
An ammonium sulfate-precipitated fraction from cell-free extracts of Pseudomonas C12B grown on a medium containing sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) contained alkyl sulfatase increased fourfold in specific activity over the crude. Optimal pH (7.5) and temperature (70 C) for sulfate release were determined with SDS labeled with radioactive sulfur (SDS(35)) as test substrate. Phosphate, arsenate, and certain heavy metal ions inhibited desulfation, whereas Mg(++) and Mn(++) stimulated activity of preparations which had been dialyzed against ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid. Dodecanol was recovered in semiquantitative yield from reaction mixtures containing enzyme and SDS(35). Aryl sulfates, secondary alcohol sulfates, and a phenoxyethyl sulfate failed to serve as substrate for this enzyme
5867651
The proportionality of growth, as indicated by turbidity of cultures of Pseudomonas C12B, to the initial concentration of sodium dodecyl sulfate, dodecanol, or a mixture of C(10)-C(20) secondary alcohol sulfates, each provided as sole carbon source in basal mineral salts medium, was demonstrated. Subsequently, the direct correlation of culture turbidity as a growth indicator and degradation of sodium dodecyl sulfate and the C(10)-C(20) compounds was established. Degradation of these detergents was measured by the rise in surface tension and the decrease in methylene blue values, respectively. Turbidimetry was found to be a poor indicator of degradation of dodecanol in the early hours of culture, however, and did not correlate over a significant range with degradation of substrate. Viable cell counts did parallel dodecanol degradation as measured by gas-liquid chromatography. The use of bacterial growth as a reliable, quantitative, and easily measured parameter indicating biodegradability was suggested for those organic compounds which can be shown to serve as a carbon source for a bacterium
5867652
Evidence is presented in support of the hypothesis that fresh bat guano serves as a means of pathogenic fungi dissemination in caves. A total of 371 guano samples were collected from caves in southeastern New Mexico. Each sample was agitated in sterile saline and sand. The supernatant fluid was treated with an antibiotic and streaked on differential media. Cultures were incubated at 25 and 37 C and examined at intervals over a 4-week period. For animal inoculation, highly concentrated inoculum was injected intraperitoneally into white Swiss mice. Animals were sacrificed 4 weeks later, and portions of their lung, liver, and spleen were cultured on selective media, incubated at 25 C, and examined at intervals over a 4-week period. Microsporum gypseum was isolated at all 10 collecting stations with an incidence of 22.4%, Trichophyton mentagrophytes at 7 stations with an incidence of 5%, T. rubrum at 3 stations with an incidence of 3%, and T. terrestre at 1 station with an incidence of 0.5%. From a total of 60 pools of liver-spleen-lung suspensions, 6 pools yielded positive cultures of Histoplasma capsulatum and 1 pool yielded T. mentagrophytes. No significant difference was found among the different selective media with respect to recovery of dermatophytes. Among the human pathogenic fungi isolated were Candida sp., Cladosporium sp., Coccidioides immitis, Cryptococcus neoformans, H. capsulatum, M. gypseum, T. mentagrophytes, T. rubrum, T. terrestre, and Sporotrichum sp
5867653
Sixty-seven strains belonging to 47 species of Basidiomycetes were examined for their acid-producing abilities in glucose media, in both the presence and absence of CaCO(3), in stationary and shake cultures. Some strains were found to produce large quantities of oxalic acid. The oxalic acid-producing strains could be separated into two groups. Strains of one group (mostly brown-rot fungi) were able to produce oxalic acid, regardless of whether CaCO(3) was present in the medium. Strains of the other group (mostly white-rot fungi) were characterized by their ability to produce oxalic acid only when CaCO(3) was added to the medium. With the latter group, shake-culturing was generally more effective than stationary culturing in respect to acid production. In the CaCO(3)-containing media, Schizophyllum commune, Merulius tremellosus, and Porodisculus pendulus were found to produce substantial amounts of L-malic acid as a main metabolic product, along with small quantities of oxalic and other acids in shake cultures. Especially, S. commune and M. tremellosus may be employed as malic acid-producing species
5867654
The penicillin acylase activity of Penicillium chrysogenum was studied. Washed mycelial suspensions of a high penicillin-producing and a nonproducing strain were found to be similar in respect to relative acylase activity on benzylpenicillin, 2-pentenylpenicillin, heptylpenicillin, and phenoxymethylpenicillin. The relative rates for both strains, as determined by 6-aminopenicillanic acid formation, were approximately 1.0, 2.5, 3.5, and 6.0 on the penicillins in the order given. The high producing strain formed both 6-aminopenicillanic acid and "natural" penicillins in fermentations to which no side-chain precursor had been added. Therefore, its demonstrated ability to cleave the natural penicillins, 2-pentenylpenicillin and heptylpenicillin, suggests that at least some of the 6-aminopenicillanic acid produced during such fermentations arises from the hydrolysis of the natural penicillins. At pH 8.5, the mycelial acylase activity of the nonproducing strain was about three times that at pH 6.0; at 35 C, it was about 1.5 times as active as it was at 30 C. When tested on penicillin G or V, no differences in either total or specific penicillin acylase activity were observed among mycelia harvested from cultures of the nonproducer to which penicillin G, penicillin V, or no penicillin had been added. Acetone-dried mycelium from both strains displayed acylase activity, but considerably less than that shown by viable mycelium. Culture filtrates were essentially inactive, although a very low order of activity was detected when culture filtrate from the nonproducer was treated with acetone and the acetone-precipitated material was assayed in a minimal amount of buffer
5867655
A study was made of Penicillium chrysogenum and some other fungi to determine the relative distribution of intra- and extracellular invertase produced by them in submerged fermentation. The proportion of each type of enzyme varied with the organism and the period of fermentation. More of the enzyme initially bound to the mycelium was released into the medium with the progress of fermentation. Differences were observed in the effects of cultural conditions on enzyme production in P. chrysogenum and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Considerably greater quantities of enzyme were produced by P. chrysogenum and the yeast in both laboratory and large-scale fermentors when sucrose was added continuously than when the same quantities of the sugar were added initially
5867656
Although most microorganisms with genetic blocks in the purine nucleotide sequence excrete breakdown products, a coryneform bacterium was found to accumulate intact 5'-nucleotides in the extracellular medium. Adenineless mutants accumulated 0.4 to 0.6 g of inosine-5'-monophosphate per liter of broth. The yield of this nucleotide was increased to 0.8 to 0.9 g per liter when such mutants were mutated to xanthine dependence. Induction of a specific guanine requirement in adenineless auxotrophs resulted in cultures capable of producing high yields of xanthosine-5'-monophosphate (3 to 4 g per liter). Pure xanthosine-5'-monophosphate was isolated from broth by a procedure involving ion-exchange chromatography, charcoal adsorption, and barium precipitation
5867658
An apparatus is described and illustrated which enables an investigator to inoculate simultaneously a large number of unicellular algal suspensions onto an agar surface. These inoculations may be repeated an indefinite number of times with a very small amount of inoculum. Good results have been obtained from tests in which large numbers of algae were placed onto selective media containing various amounts of many antibiotics, growth factors, sugars, etc
5874531
Consigli, Richard A. (University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia), and Harold S. Ginsberg. Control of aspartate transcarbamylase activity in type 5 adenovirus-infected HeLa cells. J. Bacteriol. 87:1027-1033. 1964.-Type 5 adenovirus infection induces increased aspartate transcarbamylase (ATCase) activity during the period of magnified nucleic acid biosynthesis. Increased activity can be prevented by addition of pyrimidines to the culture medium. ATCase in HeLa cells is regulated by feedback inhibition, and purified enzyme can be inhibited in vitro by cytidine triphosphate (CTP). The enzyme from infected cells has a pH optimum, maximal velocity, and K(m) for aspartate distinctly different from ATCase from control cells. However, heating of ATCase from uninfected cells converts the enzyme so that its characteristics are identical with enzyme from infected cells. Conversely, addition of CTP to ATCase from infected cells changes the characteristics of the enzyme so that they are the same as those of enzyme from uninfected cells. The evidence presented suggests that increased nucleic acid biosynthesis in infected cells initiates a release from feedback inhibition and increases ATCase activity by reducing the concentration of pyrimidines and purines in the acid-soluble pool
5874532
Manion, R. E. (Veterans Administration Hospital, Minneapolis, Minn.), S. G. Bradley, H. H. Zinneman, and W. H. Hall. Interrelationships among mycobacteria and nocardiae. J. Bacteriol. 87:1056-1859. 1964.-A total of 134 strains of mycobacteria and nocardiae were tested for susceptibility of 24 mycobacteriophages. On the basis of capability of diverse strains to serve as alternative propagating hosts for particular viruses, relationships among the actinomycetes were proposed. Cultures received as Mycobacterium smegmatis, M. ranae, M. butyricum, and M. chelonei were nearly identical, indicating that they are members of a single taxon. M. phlei and M. fortuitum strains constituted two distinct but related groups. Moreover, strains of M. smegmatis and Nocardia asteroides were susceptible to two variant actinophages originally isolated on N. brasiliensis
5874533
Saunders, Grady F. (University of Illinois, Urbana), L. Leon Campbell, and John R. Postgate. Base composition of deoxyribonucleic acid of sulfate-reducing bacteria deduced from buoyant density measurements in cesium chloride. J. Bacteriol. 87:1073-1078. 1964.-The base composition of the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) of sulfate-reducing bacteria was calculated from buoyant density measurements in CsCl. The sporulating sulfate-reducing bacteria fell into two groups: Desulfovibrio orientis with a DNA base composition of 42% guanine plus cytosine (G + C), and Clostridium nigrificans with a DNA base composition of 45% G + C. The mesophilic relative of C. nigrificans had a DNA base composition of 46% G + C. Thirty strains of nonsporulating sulfate-reducing bacteria called D. desulfuricans were studied. They fell into three groups as judged by DNA base composition: group I (11 strains), 60 to 62% G + C; group II (13 strains), 54 to 56% G + C; and group III (6 strains), 46 to 47% G + C. These data underline the need for a taxonomic revision of this group of microorganisms
5874534
Bernheimer, Alan W. (New York University School of Medicine, New York), and Lois L. Schwartz. Lysosomal disruption by bacterial toxins. J. Bacteriol. 87:1100-1104. 1964.-Seventeen bacterial toxins were examined for capacity (i) to disrupt rabbit leukocyte lysosomes as indicated by decrease in turbidity of lysosomal suspensions, and (ii) to alter rabbit liver lysosomes as measured by release of beta-glucuronidase and acid phosphatase. Staphylococcal alpha-toxin, Clostridium perfringens alpha-toxin, and streptolysins O and S affected lysosomes in both systems. Staphylococcal beta-toxin, leucocidin and enterotoxin, Shiga neurotoxin, Serratia endotoxin, diphtheria toxin, tetanus neurotoxin, C. botulinum type A toxin, and C. perfringens epsilon-toxin were not active in either system. Staphylococcal delta-toxin, C. histolyticum collagenase, crude C. perfringens beta-toxin, and crude anthrax toxin caused lysosomal damage in only one of the test systems. There is a substantial correlation between the hemolytic property of a toxin and its capacity to disrupt lysosomes, lending support to the concept that erythrocytes and lysosomes are bounded by similar membranes
5874535
Aron, H. (University of California, Santa Barbara), H. H. Yonenaka, and H. I. Nakada. Glucosamine-6-phosphate degradation by Proteus vulgaris and isolation of phosphoglucosaminisomerase. J. Bacteriol. 87:1123-1128. 1964.-The presence of the enzyme, phosphoglucosaminisomerase, was demonstrated in a strain of Proteus vulgaris. Fructose-6-phosphate and ammonia were shown to be the primary reaction products. The optimal pH was 7.2 with a broad peak. This differs from previously reported bacterial phosphoglucosaminisomerases which had a pH optimum of about 5.8. Other properties of the enzyme are presented
5874536
Kushner, D. J. (National Research Council, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada). Lysis and dissolution of cells and envelopes of an extremely halophilic bacterium. J. Bacteriol. 87:1147-1156. 1964.-Envelopes of the extremely halophilic bacterium, Halobacterium cutirubrum, disintegrate in the absence of salt to form much smaller particles. Extensive proteolytic breakdown to compounds of low molecular weight is not involved in this process or in the lysis of cells in the absence of salt. NaCl is much more effective than KCl or NH(4)Cl in preserving the integrity of intact cells, but is only slightly more effective in preserving the integrity of mechanically prepared envelopes, of cells made permeable by treatment with acid, and of cells made permeable by formalin fixation followed by exposure to water. MgCl(2) is much more effective in preserving the integrity of these preparations than of intact cells. The results suggest that the exterior cell surface has sites specifically requiring Na(+) to maintain their integrity, whereas the interior surface has sites whose integrity is maintained at least as well by K(+) or NH(4) (+) as by Na(+)
5874537
Kolstad, R. A. (University of Minnesota, Minneapolis), and S. G. Bradley. Purification of Streptomyces venezuelae phage. J. Bacteriol. 87:1157-1161. 1964.-Streptomyces venezuelae phage MSP8 was concentrated and purified by a combination of methods including dialysis against polyethylene glycol, partitioning between the two phases of aqueous polymer systems, gel filtration, chromatography on ECTEOLA-cellulose, and differential centrifugation. S. venezuelae phage MSP8 is 57% deoxyribonucleic acid and 43% protein. Its head is 55 by 70 mmu, and its tail is 10 by 150 mmu. Its dry weight is 250 mg per 10(15) plaqueforming units, and its density is 1.4. Phage MSP8 contains 15 mug of phosphorus and 40 mug of nitrogen per 10(12) particles. The ratio of light absorbancy at 260 to 280 mmu is 1.5. A mixture of two actinophages, MNP3 and MVP7, was separated by use of ECTEOLA-cellulose. In one fraction, 99% of the phage was MNP3; in another fraction, 99% of the phage was MVP7
5874538
Wick, Warren E. (The Lilly Research Laboratories, Indianapolis, Ind.). Influence of antibiotic stability on the results of in vitro testing procedures. J. Bacteriol. 87:1162-1170. 1964.-Certain antibiotics undergo at least partial degradation under the conditions of in vitro testing procedures. With cephalothin used as an example, experimental evidence is presented to indicate the necessity for re-evaluation of results obtained from in vitro sensitivity testing methods for some antibiotics. The in vitro activity of cephalothin, tetracycline, and chloramphenicol against a variety of gram-negative bacteria is described. Plate counts demonstrate changes in the viable cell population over a 48-hr period in tubes of minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) tests, with an abrupt rise in MIC value for cephalothin between the 12th and 24th hr. Data obtained by chromatographic methods, showing the degradation of cephalothin for the same time interval, indicated that instability of the antibiotic between the 12th and 24th hr might adversely affect the results obtained from standard 20- to 24-hr in vitro antibiotic sensitivity testing methods. Because repeated administration of an antibiotic to a patient at 4- to 8-hr intervals reinforces the original concentration, a more accurate estimate of antibacterial activity of that antibiotic might preferably be related to this time interval
5874539
Werly, Emil F. (Midwest Research Institute, Kansas City, Mo.), and Anne Monley. Assay of T(3) phage by plaque count. J. Bacteriol. 87:1177-1179. 1964.-T(3) phage-count determinations were made by the agar layer method, with various media being used for serial dilutions, plate media, and overlayer media. Plaques produced with Tryptose-phosphate-dextrose hard agar as plate and overlayer media were small, distinct, sharply defined, and easily counted. With the media described, several hundred plaques per plate can be counted, after either 4 or 20 hr of incubation
5874540
Bladen, Howard A. (National Institute of Dental Health, Bethesda, Md.), and Edward G. Hampp. Ultrastructure of Treponema microdentium and Borrelia vincentii. J. Bacteriol. 87:1180-1191.-A small oral Treponema (FM) and Borrelia vincentii (N9) were harvested after 3 to 7 days of incubation and either embedded in Vestopal W or negatively stained with phosphotungstate. The protoplasmic cylinders of both strains were identical except for size, and had a triple-structured cell wall as well as intracellular concentric laminations. Protoplasmic cylinders of both strains were enclosed in a cell envelope which appeared amorphous in negatively stained preparations, but which had a triple-structured wall when viewed in thin sections. The cell envelope of strain FM also acted as an envelope for the terminal filament; no filament envelope was evident in strain N9. Large structures which contained variable numbers of organisms and which were representative of spirochetal granules were observed. Protoplasmic cylinders contained within such granules frequently were devoid of cell envelopes. The axial filament consisted of several individual fibers which usually terminated in small end knobs. Occasionally, a fiber of the axial filament became a fiber of the terminal filament. Fibers of the terminal filament originated in end knobs similar to, but separate from, those to which the axial filament was attached. A periodicity of 60 A was occasionally observed in the terminal filament envelope of strain FM. A microperiodicity of approximately 20 A was also observed. The fibers of the terminal filament of strain N9 were composed of a large number of fibrils approximately 15 A wide. The periodicity and fibrillar structure of the terminal filament is discussed with reference to proposed models of bacterial flagella suggested by X-ray diffraction data
5874541
Banville, Robert R. (The Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C.). Factors affecting growth of Staphylococcus aureus L forms on semidefined medium. J. Bacteriol. 87:1192-1197. 1964.-A semidefined agar medium was found suitable for production and cultivation of the L form of Staphylococcus aureus. In semidefined liquid medium, growth of the L form took place in the form of a sediment containing large masses of cells, but heavy and diffuse growth occurred in the same medium with 0.05% agar. The optimal pH for L-colony formation on solid medium was 6.5. More L colonies developed on 0.75% agar than at higher agar concentrations. L colonies developed in greater numbers on pour plates than on streak plates, and in some cases more L colonies appeared under anaerobic incubation. L-colony formation appeared to be inhibited by sodium citrate. The vitamin requirements of the L forms studied were similar to those of the classical form
5874542
Castleberry, Merida W. (U.S. Army Biological Laboratories, Fort Detrick, Frederick, Md.), John L. Converse, and Peter J. Soto, Jr. Antibiotic control of tissue reactions in dogs vaccinated with viable cells of Coccidioides immitis. J. Bacteriol. 87:1216-1220. 1964.-A total of 12 dogs (15 to 25 lb each), vaccinated with viable Coccidioides immitis (subcutaneous injection of 260 viable arthrospores in the medial surface of the hind leg), resisted a respiratory challenge (aerosol) with the same organism (13,000 viable arthrospores) administered (aerosol) 2 months after vaccination. Oral amphotericin B therapy (150 mg of Fungizone per day for 21 days) of 6 of the 12 dogs, initiated immediately after vaccination, eliminated the undesirable side reactions of the viable vaccine (ulcerated vaccination site and inguinal lymphadenopathy exhibited by the 6 untreated dogs) without affecting the immunogenicity of the vaccine. Clinical observation (blood-urea nitrogen levels) during and after therapy and histological examination approximately 3 months after respiratory challenge failed to disclose any evidence of nephrotoxicity or renal damage due to the oral antibiotic therapy (total doses of more than 3 g of amphotericin B)
5874548
Flanagan, John F. (University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia), and Harold S. Ginsberg. Role of ribonucleic acid biosynthesis in multiplication of type 5 adenovirus. J. Bacteriol. 87:977-987. 1964.-The requirement for ribonucleic acid (RNA) biosynthesis in the multiplication of type 5 adenovirus was investigated by using radioactive phosphorus to label nucleic acids and two pyrimidine analogues, 6-azauridine and 5-fluorouracil or 5-fluorouridine, to inhibit synthesis of functional RNA. The data indicate that biosynthesis of RNA after infection is essential for production of virus-specific deoxyribonucleic acid, virus antigens, and infectious particles. The onset of essential RNA synthesis occurs 8 to 9 hr after virus infection and prior to the biosynthesis of other known virus-induced macromolecules
5874549
Wolin, E. A. (University of Illinois, Urbana), R. S. Wolfe, and M. J. Wolin. Viologen dye inhibition of methane formation by Methanobacillus omelianskii. J. Bacteriol. 87:993-998. 1964.-Low concentrations of methyl or benzyl viologen inhibit the formation of CH(4) from ethanol and CO(2) by washed cells of Methanobacillus omelianskii. Hydrogen, which is normally formed from ethanol, accumulates in greater quantities when CH(4) formation is inhibited by viologens. The viologens do not stimulate H(2) formation from ethanol in the absence of CO(2). Inhibition of CH(4) formation by the viologens is not reversed by H(2). A variety of other dyes and possible electron acceptors were tested for inhibition, and none was inhibitory in the same low-concentration range at which the viologens were effective